ASEAN Smart City Planning Guidebook
March 2022
Prepared by Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) in Japan
In Consultation with the ASEAN Smart Cities Network (ASCN) and the ASEAN Secretariat (ASEC)

1
The guidebook has been developed, by leveraging insights from discussions with 
ASEAN cities, in addition to leveraging reports developed in ASEAN and Japan.
How to develop the ASEAN Smart City Planning Guidebook
Introduction
2. Priority Areas for 
Development of Smart 
Cities 
3. Process and 
Enablers for Smart City 
Development
1. Basic Understanding 
of Smart Cities 
ASEAN Smart City Planning Guide Book: Table of Contents Key Information Source
• Introduction (e.g. objective, expected readers, structure) 
• How to use the guidebook
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
Chapter
●
● 〇
● ●
● ● 〇
〇 ● ●
〇 ● ●
Concept Note
(ASEAN 
Secretariat-MLIT) 
Reports by 
Association of 
Southeast 
Asian Nations 
(ASEAN) 1 
Interviews with 
ASEAN Cities
Reports from 
Japan 2Subchapter
〇● Primary Source Supplementary
Source
Note:
1 Key reports includes the ‘ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy (ASUS)’
2 Key reports includes the ‘Smart City Guidebook’ and ‘Smart City Reference Architecture Whitepaper’ 
Insights provided in the interviews with the 
ASEAN cities has been primarily used for 
the examples in each section.

2
The guidebook will include both the framework and examples, regarding the 
priority areas, processes, and enablers for smart city development.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents Key Contents
Introduction • Introduction (objective of guidebook, expected readers, structure of guidebook)
• How to use the guidebook
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development • Background of smart city development
• Objective and definition of smart city development
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
• Key Principles and Guidelines for Smart City Development
• Framework for smart city development
o Framework 1: ASEAN Smart Cities Framework
o Framework 2: ASUS 
o Framework 3: Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
• Overview of the Priority Areas
• Example for Inclusive & Equitable Growth
• Example for Housing & Home 
• Example for Personal Safety & Security
• Example for Water, Waste & Sanitation 
• Example for Mobility
• Example for Urban Resilience 
• Example for Education
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development • Overview of Business Process for Smart City Development
• Example of Smart City Development by Development Phase
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations
• Overview of Stakeholders for Smart City Development
• Stakeholder Role by Player Type
• Functions of Primary Promoter
• Example for Primary Promoter
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
• Overview of Smart City by Business Model (Revenue Stream)
• Example for Smart City by Business Model (Revenue Stream)
• Overview of Smart City Monetization
• Example for Smart City Monetization
• Overview of Smart City Costing Allocation
3.2.3 Citizen Participation • Overview of Enhancement for Citizen Participation
• Example for Citizen Participation
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City Operating System (City OS)
• Overview of Digital Infrastructure Development
• Characteristic of Smart City OS
• Basic Functions of Smart City OS
• Example for Smart City OS
• Overview of Digital Model Technology for Smart Cities
• Example for Digital Model Technology and Geographic Information System (GIS) Data Usage
3.2.5 Evaluation and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) • Overview of Evaluation KPIs in ASEAN
• Example for Evaluation / KPIs
Conclusion
Appendix • City Profile

3
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

4
Concept Note for the ASEAN Smart City Planning Guidebook
Introduction
Background and Objectives:
• The Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity (MPAC) 2025 sets out ASEAN’s vision to achieve a seamlessly and comprehensively connected and integrated 
ASEAN that will promote competitiveness, inclusiveness and a greater sense of Community.
• MPAC 2025 identifies “Sustainable Infrastructure” as a strategic area, with increasing the deployment of sustainable urbanisation models across ASEAN to 
address the challenges and opportunities associated with rapid urbanisation as one of its strategic objectives. In this context, the ASEAN Smart Cities 
Network (ASCN) can contribute to the achievement of this objective by enabling the sharing of best practices in sustainable urbanisation within the ASEAN 
region, such as the ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy (ASUS).*1
• The ASCN was established by the ASEAN Leaders at the 32nd ASEAN Summit in April 2018. It is a collaborative platform where cities work together towards 
the common goal of smart and sustainable urban development. The ASCN has 26 pilot cities, including the capitals, from all ASEAN Member States.
• In light of this situation, this project aims to develop a guidebook that can be used as a reference for ASEAN cities to promote “Smart and Sustainable 
Urbanisation” by introducing best practices in the ASEAN region.
In preparing the guidebook, the following points will be taken into consideration:
• The ASEAN Smart Cities Framework, including its six development focus areas, as the overarching structure of the document.
• Smart cities planning and development require an integrated approach to physical, digital and human systems. 
• As digital technology is expected to be used as an enabler to solve urban problems, the guidebook would consider data generation, distribution and 
management.
• From the perspective of attracting investment in the project, it is important to include consideration of multilateral banks and investors as well as the local 
community.
• The guidebook could address common barriers or challenges identified under the ASUS, such as information failures, return on investment, fiscal capacity, 
implementation capacity, and coordination.
• The preliminary draft guidebook was shared at the 3rd ASEAN-Japan Smart Cities Network High-Level Meeting held in October 2021.
• Case Studies (examples) will also be conducted for this project, including by using the guidebook, to deepen the knowledge onthe implementation of 
smart and sustainable urbanisation across the region. The Case Studies (examples) can be based on the 7 priority sub-areas and 8 priority actions for 
sustainable urbanisation identified under the ASUS*2. 
o ASUS 7 priority sub-areas are: (1) Inclusive & Equitable Growth; (2) Housing & Home; (3) Personal Safety & Security; (4) Water, Waste, and 
Sanitation; (5) Mobility; (6) Urban Resilience; (7) Education.
*1 For more information on the Strategic Area of Sustainable Infrastructure, please see https://connectivity.asean.org/strategic-area/connecting-asean-an-overview/ 
*2 For more information on the ASUS priority sub-areas and actions as well as the common barriers to implement sustainable urbanisation actions, please see 
https://asean.org/storage/2018/11/ASEAN-Sustainable-Urbanisation-Strategy-ASUS.pdf

5
The guidebook aims to provide practical insights including frameworks and 
examples, to support stakeholders involved in smart city development in ASEAN.
Introduction
Expected Readers 
• This guidebook was developed, primarily for the following 
readers which are involved in smart city development in 
the ASEAN region:
o Local government members
o National government members
o Other members in the public sector involved in 
smart city development
o State owned enterprises
o Stakeholders in the private sector for smart cities
(e.g. Primary Promoters, Service Providers, and 
Investors)
Guidebook Structure
• Section 1: Provides a basic understanding of what a smart 
city is, including the background, objectives, core 
principles, and frameworks for smart cities.
• Section 2: Provides examples based on the 7 sub-priority 
areas in the ASUS Framework.
• Section 3: Provides an overview of the business process 
and the key enablers for smart city development, and best 
practices for each process and enabler.

6
Basic Questions regarding Smart Cities
This guidebook will address various questions regarding smart city development,
ranging from what a smart city is, to the efficient ways of developing smart city.
How to Use the Guidebook
Example of Use Cases
What is a smart city?
Where should I start, 
for smart city 
development?
How to develop smart 
cities efficiently?
Relevant Contents in Guidebook
1.1 Background and Objectives
for Smart City Development 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for 
Smart City Development 
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City 
Development
2.1 Overview and Examples for the 
Priority Areas
Background and objectives on why a smart city 
needs to be developed in the ASEAN Member 
States. 
Principles and frameworks for smart city 
development, and examples from actual cities.
Step-by-step explanation on how to develop 
smart cities, and examples for each of the steps.
Overview and examples of the effective usage of 
the 5 key enablers for smart city development.
Overview on the priority areas, actions which can 
be taken in the priority areas, and examples.
Level of Progress

7
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

8
Share of 
Real GDP 
(2015)
Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) 
of Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
Growth (Unit: %)
Urbanisation is expected to continue across ASEAN Member States, which will be 
primarily driven by the growth in middleweight regions.
Background of Smart City Development
Urban Share of Country’s Population (Unit: %) Economic Growth by Size of Region
Background: 
Rising 
Urbanisation in 
ASEAN
• Urbanisation is expected to continue across all ASEAN Member States in the future, resulting in an additional 70 
million urban residents from 2015 to 2025 in total within the ASEAN region.
• In particular, urbanisation is rising in middleweight regions with population between 500,000 and 5 million, in 
addition to mega cities such as Bangkok* and Jakarta.
*Note: The Office of the Royal Society (ORST) has recently (specifically on February 16, 2022) announced the change of the official name of Thailand’s capital, from Bangkok to "Krung Thep Maha Nakhon."
Source: ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy
100
77 74
53
48 46
34 33 30
22
47
100
80 80
60
55
49
41 40
33
27
53
Brunei
Vietnam
Singapore
Indonesia
Malaysia
Thailand
Philippines
Laos
Myanmar
Cambodia
ASEAN Total
2015 2025
5.0
5.7
4.8
5.0
4.2
5.1
5.5
6.9
5.8
6.0
5.5
6.0
Mega Regions 
(5 mn people and above)
Large Middleweights 
(1-5 mn people)
Small Middleweights 
(500K-1 mn people)
Small Regions 
(300K-500K people)
Rural Regions 
(Below 300K people)
Total
2010-2015 2015-2020
33%
Share of 
Population
(2015)
32%
16%
8%
11%
11%
48%
22%
9%
10%
Additional 
70 mn people 
from 2015-2025 

9
Issues and Challenges caused by Rapid Urbanisation
A smart city leverages digital infrastructure across business areas, to address the 
urban challenges observed across ASEAN Member States.
Objectives and Definition of Smart City Development
Objectives and 
definition of 
smart city
• Rapid urbanisation has caused issues and challenges in the ASEAN Member States, for areas including the quality of 
life for the residents, environment, and infrastructure.
• Smart cities in ASEAN aims to address such issues and challenges and provide new value to the citizens, by leveraging 
digital infrastructure and data as an enabler. 
Other Cities
Usage of Data 
Across Cities
Education
Urban Resilience Personal Safety 
& Security
Housing 
& Homes
Inclusive & 
Equitable Growth
Water, Waste &
SanitationMobility
Digital 
Infrastructure
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy
Overview of Smart Cities in ASEAN
City 
Congestion
Water / Air
Quality
Security and 
Safety
Urban / Rural 
Divide
Rising 
Inequalities
Insufficient public transport infrastructure 
and services, and traffic congestions.
Increased water demand causing strains on 
the existing water infrastructure.
In addition to traditional threats, non-
traditional threats such as cyber threats. 
Less opportunities for residents residing in 
rural areas compared to urban residents.
Economic inequality, further accelerated by 
the digital technology adoption as a result 
of the Corona Virus Disease (Covid-19).

10
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

11
3 Key Principles
Smart city should be developed in alignment with the key principles and 
guidelines, to ensure that the city enhances the quality of life for the citizens.
Basic Concept for Smart City Development
5 Key Guidelines
Key Principles and Guidelines for Smart City Development
Work across different business areas and cities, to 
address challenges which are complex and arise 
across cities.
Collaborate across Business Areas and Cities
Focus on the well-being of the citizens, 
and promote the participation by the 
citizens.
Prioritize the Citizens
Aim not only to implement new 
technology, but focus on solutions which 
resolves the issues.
Focus on the Vision and Issues
Develop digital infrastructure which the data 
can be used in a transparent and 
interoperable manner.
Transparent and Interoperable
Achieve a smart city which all citizens can 
participate and access the service equally.
Fair and Inclusive
Ensure that the privacy of citizens is 
maintained, when using data.
Ensure Privacy
Secure sustainable finance and 
management system, to ensure that the 
city can grow sustainably.
Sustainable Finance and Management
Ensure that security is maintained, and a 
resilient infrastructure is developed, for 
emergency situations.
Security and Resilience
Source: World Economic Forum: Global Smart Cites Alliance, Smart City Guidebook (Japan)

12
ASEAN Smart Cities Framework and ASUS below provide key components for the 
guidebook. Both frameworks share the 6 Focus Areas, in which ASUS further 
defines 7 Priority Sub-Areas and 8 Priority Actions.
ASEAN Smart Cities & ASUS
ASEAN Smart Cities Framework and ASUS used in the ASEAN Smart City Planning Guidebook
Source: The ASEAN Secretariat Jakarta - ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy
7 Priority 
Sub-
Areas
8 Priority 
Actions
• Inclusive & 
equitable 
growth
• Introduce and 
improve 
access to 
digital 
payment 
solutions to 
enhance 
financial 
inclusion.
• Housing & 
home
• Develop and 
expand 
affordable 
housing 
solutions.
• Personal 
safety & 
security
• Introduce 
digital 
solutions to 
enhance 
safety and 
security in 
cities.
• Water, waste 
& sanitation
• Enhance solid 
waste 
management 
systems.
• Mobility
• Urban 
resilience
• Introduce and 
improve Bus 
Rapid Transit 
(BRT) systems.
• Develop and 
enhance 
traffic 
management 
systems.
• Develop flood 
management 
systems.
• Education
• Develop 
digital skills
through 
“industry boot 
camps.”
Civic & Social Health & 
Well-being Security Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry & 
Innovation
Key components for ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation
6 Focus Areas
ASEAN Smart Cities Framework
ASUS

13
The framework on the approach to smart city development is also provided, to 
support the ASEAN Smart Cities Framework and ASUS.
Smart City Development Framework (Process and Enablers)
• Information in this guidebook is organized by the key frameworks "Five Steps for Smart City Development" and the "Six Points 
(Enablers) for Smart City Development", to summarize the issues and solutions for the development of smart cities in ASEAN cities.
Conceptual
Phase
Preparation 
Phase
Plan (Strategy)
Development
Phase
Pilot and 
Implementation
Phase
Enhancement
Phase
Entire Project Development
Organizations
Financial 
Sustainability
Citizen 
Participation
Digital 
Infrastructure
(City OS)
Evaluation and 
KPI
Point:
Does the city have 
a clear vision?
Point:
Has a functional 
and flexible 
organization been 
established?
Points:
Are financial plans 
reviewed to 
ensure financial 
sustainability?
Also, is the 
concept of 
beneficiaries and 
cost sharing 
organized?
Point:
Are the actions 
based on the 
needs of the 
citizens?
Point:
Are there plans to 
build a City OS?
Point:
Are there 
appropriate 
evaluation and KPI 
for the project?
Point: Are the 
plans (strategy) 
developed based 
on a vision?
Point:
Is the smart city 
developed based 
on the vision and 
plan?
Point:
Does the 
organization 
consider various 
stakeholders to 
participate?
Point:
Are there efforts 
to foster 
understanding 
from the citizens?
Point:
Are integration 
and technological 
advancement of 
service and data 
considered?
Six Points (Enablers) for Smart City Development
Five Steps for Smart City Development
Framework on Approach to Smart City Development used in the ASEAN Smart City Planning Guidebook 

14
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

15
Priority sub-areas and actions have been identified based on common needs.
Overview of the Priority Areas
• Inclusive & 
Equitable 
Growth
• Housing & 
Home
• Personal 
Safety & 
Security
• Water, 
Waste & 
Sanitation
• Mobility
• Education
Civic & Social
Health & 
Well-being
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry & 
Innovation
Source: The ASEAN Secretariat Jakarta - ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy
• Introduce and improve access 
to digital payment solutions
to enhance financial inclusion.
• Develop and expand 
affordable housing solutions.
• Introduce digital solutions to 
enhance safety and security 
in cities.
• Enhance solid waste 
management systems.
• Introduce and improve Bus 
Rapid Transit (BRT) systems.
• Develop digital skills through 
“industry boot camps.”
• Develop and enhance traffic 
management systems.
• Urban 
Resilience
• Develop flood management 
systems.
• Increase the number of city residents with access to financial services 
through digital financial instruments.
• Improve access to adequate, safe and affordable housing in the city.
• Take advantage of relevant digital technologist to help reduce the 
incidence of crime and threats to public safety.
• Improve the overall management of waste collection, segregation, 
treatment, and recovery in cities.
• Improve the quality and efficiency of public transport and reduce 
congestion.
• Increase the level of digital skills amongst the population in line with 
requirements of the local industry, resulting in a reduction in skills gaps, 
fewer vacancies, and more placements in higher value-added 
employment.
• Reduce traffic congestion and the incidence of traffic accidents in the 
city.
• Reduce the incidence, damage and disruption caused by flooding 
across a city through introducing, or improving, integrated urban 
flood management and other flood management solutions.
6 Focus Areas 7 Priority Sub-Areas 8 Priority Actions Objectives

16
Real-time payment system via QR code and mobile numbers, and enabling 
mobile apps for top-ups can help drive cashless payment in every-day lives.
Example: Inclusive & Equitable Growth
• Consumers and business entities can send and receive money 
directly from the bank account, by using a quick response (QR) 
code, entering the mobile number / unique entity number (UEN), 
etc., in an easy, fast, and safe manner.
• Cross-border payment to Thailand was introduced in 2021 by 
connecting with PromptPay, Thailand’s payment system, and 
linkage with Unified Payments Interface (UPI), India’s payment 
system, is planned in 2022.
Source: The Association of Banks in Singapore, the Straits Times, Wing Bank 
Singapore: PayNow – Online Banking System Phnom Penh: City Bus Card – Cashless Bus Payment
• Phnom Penh developed the City Bus Card in 2018, which enables 
cashless electronic payment within the bus through the card.
• The card can be charged digitally, including top-up by phones, 
bill payment, online payment.
• Through the mobile app, the remaining balance can be easily 
observed as well. 

17
Aiming to be ASEAN information technology (IT) and innovative hub, Thailand 
Digital Valley with 5 digital infrastructures will be established.
Example: Inclusive & Equitable Growth
Digital infrastructure Image Objective Size (sqm.)
Digital One Stop 
Service
• Serve as one stop service for investor, intelligent 
operation center and office of Digital Economy 
Promotion Agency.
• 1,500
Digital Startup
Knowledge Exchange 
Center
• Become a center for digital knowledge exchange 
including co-working space, office and commercial 
area.
• 4,500
Digital Innovation 
Center
• Serve as a center of digital innovative facilities; next-
generation telecommunication testing lab, A.I. 
(artificial intelligence) lab, mixed reality center, 
Internet of Things (IoT) design center, Prototyping 
fabrication lab and mechatronics & robotics lab.
• 40,000
Digital Edutainment
Complex
• Provide space for education and entertainment 
activities including robotic school, robot fighting 
area, drone school and drone racing arena.
• 20,000
Digital Go Global 
Center
• Enable designing and testing of technology and 
innovation and become a startup incubator for 
global expansion through product innovation and 
development.
• 20,000
Source: Thailand Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA) 
Chonburi: Thailand Digital Valley

18
Digital technology will help enhance the local payment system, by promoting a 
cash-less and convenient transaction experience for the residents and visitors.
Example: Inclusive & Equitable Growth
Nanki-Shirahama (Wakayama): Face Recognition Payment Okaya City (Nagano): Local Cashless Payment System
• By registering your face and credit card details, the user can 
make payment through facial recognition system, without a 
wallet and smart phone.
• The payment service can be used in the airport, hotel, 
restaurants, amusement parks, etc. 
• Payment system is digitalized into a local payment ecosystem, 
which enhances cashless payment and the development of the 
local economy.
Source: NEC, Toppan Printing
Residents
• Card 
• Mobile app
Merchants
• POS Terminal
• Smartphone / tablet
• E-commerce
Service Providers
• Business applications
• Report summary
• Inquiry on results
Cashless Payment 
System
• Local credits
• Shopping points
• E-vouchers
• Local points
• Tourism cards
Stakeholders System

19
Providing digital platforms such as mobile apps and websites, can support the 
easy access to information regarding affordable housing programs. 
Example: Housing & Home
• Department of Public Housing and Settlement Areas within DKI 
Jakarta government works together with several developers and 
banks, to rent out affordable housing for low-income residents 
within Jakarta.
• Citizens can communicate and obtain information about 
Rusunawa housings through the mobile app and website 
‘Sirukim’. 
• Platform can be used to obtain information on billing for 
Rusunawa rentals, registering for rental units, and to provide 
complaints. 
DKI Jakarta: Rusunawa – Affordable Housing Program
Source: DKI Jakarta Government
Leverages Mobile App and Websites for Easy Usage

20
Energy management can enhance energy efficiency within residences through 
visualization of usage patterns, and interconnectivity within the area.
Example: Housing & Home
• Leverages Home Energy Management System (HEMS), for the 
households in the city to have the function of creating, storing, 
and utilizing energy efficiently.
• The system visualizes the energy flow through monitors in digital 
devices.
• Leverages Area Energy Management System (AEMS) to visualize 
the usage of utilities, to make the entire area including 
residences, offices, and commercial buildings energy efficient.
• Also, it allowed electrical power to interchange across city and 
ward lines for the first time in Japan, in which solar power and 
batteries were leveraged as the energy source.
Fujisawa City (Kanagawa): Home Energy Management System (HEMS) Kashiwa-no-ha (Chiba): Area Energy Management System (AEMS)
Source: Fujisawa SST, Hitachi

21
Providing a centralized office with digital and intelligent solutions will help 
reduce the incidence of crime and threats to public safety.
Example: Personal Safety & Security
Davao City: Public Safety and Security Command Center (PSSCC) 
• Public Safety and Security Command Center (PSSCC) is a division under the Office of the City Mayor, developed to provide protection, 
security, safety and risk management to the people of Davao City.
• The organization operates through coordinative approach to address the different issues of safety and security by leveraging 
information, people, technology, and intelligent solutions. As part of the service, the organization provides closed-circuit television 
(CCTV) viewing or a copy of CCTV footages for video requests.
• PSSCC collaborates with various organizations including the Davao City Police Office (DCPO), the Task Force Davao (TFD), the Traffic 
Management Center (TMC), the Central 911, the Davao City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (DCDRRMC), the 
Barangay Officials and other law enforcement agencies.
Source: Davao City
Coordination Structure

22
Leveraging items and services which are used within daily lives as a means to 
identify the location and condition of vulnerable residents can enhance safety.
Example: Personal Safety & Security
Sensor Tags Sensor Detectors
Kakogawa City (Hyogo): Location Services by 
Sensor Tags and Detectors Ina City (Nagano): Monitoring Service by Cable TVs
• Sensor tags are provided to children and elderly residents, and 
sensor detectors are placed throughout the city, including 
cameras and cars.
• The sensor detectors help provide the location of the children 
and elderly residents to the families, in which the location can 
be viewed in a mobile app. 
Location 
information will be 
notified to the 
mobile app of 
families.
Mobile App
• For cable TV subscribers, if the elderly subscriber has not 
viewed cable TV for a specific amount of time, a message will 
be delivered to the families.
• Also, messages from the family can be viewed on the TV screen 
as well, for easy and efficient communication regarding the 
safety of the residents.
Source: Kakogawa City, Smart City Guidebook (Japan)

23
To enhance waste management, engagement and education of the citizens will 
drive transformation.
Example: Water, Waste & Sanitation
Battambang: Programs to Improve Waste Management System 
Source: UN Environment Program, NRI based on interview and questionnaire
• In 2011, Battambang launched a participatory waste 
management initiative, aimed at setting up community-based 
planning and implementation of waste management based on 
a reduction, reuse and recycle (3R) approach.
• The above resulted in the waste management situation in 
Battambang gradually improving over the years.
• Currently, there is another ongoing pilot project ‘Battambang 
Smart Solid Waste Financial Management (Phase 1)’ to further 
enhance the waste management in the city.
• In the participatory waste management initiative launched 
in 2011, a series of programs to raise awareness was 
conducted, including distribution of brochures, 
announcements, and community workshops. 
• A street cleaning campaign was also organized with the 
participation of students from local schools, staff from 
public organizations and local business enterprises as 
volunteers, to engage the citizens.
Initiatives to Raise Citizen Awareness and Engagement

24
Digital technologies to monitor the water consumption, can help the city to 
utilize water resources more efficiently, and improve costing within the city. 
Example: Water, Waste & Sanitation
Bandar Seri Begawan: Smart Meters for Efficient Water Consumption
• To increase financial sustainability of several public services, the city strives to improve cost controllability. 
• An example of proposed initiatives includes the consolidation of water and electricity meters, allowing households to monitorand 
manage their usage online as well as potentially reducing government subsidies.
Source: The 3rd ASEAN - Japan Smart Cities Network High Level Meeting

25
Efficient waste management, waste-to-energy, and waste reduction schemes can 
be considered as a solution to solve issues regarding waste within the cities.
Example: Water, Waste & Sanitation
Kota 
Kinabalu
Chonburi
Makassar
Waste 
Management
• As a sub-plan of the smart city, the city has developed the Green City Action Plan, which includes 
integrated waste management and green energy. 
• The project for integrated solid waste management system was initiated, with an aim to transform the city 
into a clean, green and livable city, which has a sustainable waste management system. 
• There are also initiatives to enhance citizen participation in waste management by gathering 
opinions/issues from the citizen in the targeted areas.
Waste-to-
Energy
Waste 
Reduction
• In 2019, the feasibility study of a waste-to-energy power plant in worth THB 1.8 billion was initiated, to sell 
electricity to Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) and other buyers. 
• The target is to convert non-hazardous industrial waste of 100,000 tons per year, using environmentally 
sustainable waste burning technology, and high-standard air emission control systems. 
• The city developed Makassar Waste Bank Program, which waste management is conducted by 
purchasing recycled waste at the ‘Waste Bank Units’, which are located in every sub-district in Makassar 
City. 
City Name Activity Type Description
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire results, ASCN Smart City Action Plans, Bangkok Post

26
To reduce traffic congestion and increase efficiency, Bus Rapid Transit and traffic 
monitoring system are introduced in Makassar City.
Example: Mobility
Source: Asian Development Bank, Telkomseliot
Purpose : To reduce traffic congestion problem in the city.
Operator : Perum Damri, a state-owned enterprise.
Launch year : 2015.
Passenger : 70 people.
Fare : Rp. 5,000 per corridor.
Feature : With control center, WiFi / global positioning system (GPS) equipped, the vehicle 
can be monitored centrally and data is collected to solve traffic congestion.
Bus Rapid Transit 
by Makassar City
Purpose : Government can now get data about the best routes, vehicle 
usage hours, driver behaviour and speed limit which increases overall security, 
effectiveness, and operational efficiencies. 
Operator : Telkomsel.
System : Telkomsel IoT FleetSight.
Feature : 1. Driver Status Monitor (DSM)s
An advanced driver behaviour warning artificial intelligence (AI) mechanism.
2. Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS)
A real-time situation detector and warning system.
Traffic monitoring system 
Makassar: Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) 

27
MaaS applications can enhance the tourist’s experience in the city, by providing 
a more flexible and efficient mobility infrastructure via digital technologies. 
Example: Mobility
Phuket and Siem Reap: MaaS Application to Enhance Tourism Experience 
Phuket
Siem Reap
City Name Mobility Issues MaaS Solutions
• Public transport system is not very convenient, whist traffic 
congestion are a major issue.
• Although there is a data platform, the data platform is not 
efficiently interconnected with the public services.
• Partnered with Japanese companies through the Smart City 
supported by Japan ASEAN Mutual Partnership (Smart JAMP) 
initiative by MLIT, to create a robust platform and mobile application 
that integrates real-time data from multiple types of transportation in 
order to optimize urban mobility from the first to last mile.
• Aims to expand the service to include land, sea, and air travel 
throughout the Andaman area, including Krabi and Pang-Nga 
Provinces.
• Room for improvement regarding the flexibility of tourist 
itineraries, since most go through the recommended route.
• The service providers and the government are not getting enough 
information on the movements and flow of the tourists.
• Partnered with Japanese companies and Japan External Trade 
Organization (JETRO) to introduce a tourism MaaS application in 
Siem Reap, which allows a flexible itinerary, especially as visitors 
prefer to travel in small groups during Covid-19.
Application Image for MaaS Solution in Siem Reap
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire results, MLIT, AMEICC

28
Digital technology such as smart traffic lights and database infrastructure will 
help address traffic issues such as traffic congestion and violations. 
Example: Mobility
• Installed smart traffic light, in which during early 2021, the first phase has been implemented where the light was installedat around 50 
junctions within the city.
• Also, the city has completed the construction of integrated operation center facility, with a plan to install more CCTVs. Thecenter is 
equipped with the computing power of big data to assist on several smart city tasks related to traffic, security and disastermonitoring etc.
• Traffic management systems includes 63 automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems. 
• According to budget allocation, plans on expanding the traffic management system to the whole city, which includes the planning to 
enhance the ANPR CCTV systems to monitor the traffic violations.
City Name Description
• The city has issues with traffic congestion, in which the efforts to address this challenge includes the establishment of smart traffic control 
systems through procurement of intelligent traffic light systems. 
• Other digital technology leveraged includes sensors, monitoring equipment and database infrastructure to operate an intelligent traffic 
control system, improve traffic regulation enforcement, information collection and sharing, aiming to ultimately enhance public safety.
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire results, ASCN Report by Centre for Liveable Cities, JETRO, Da Nang Today 
• Developed an Intelligent Operation Center (IOC), which functions as the hub to collect and analyze information from the CCTV,which 
enables facial recognition, action towards traffic accidents, as well as managing information on utilities (e.g. electricity)through GIS system.
• CCTV and surveillance systems are being implemented, with new functions such as vehicle and people counting, leveraging the usage of AI 
technology.
Kuching
Mandalay
Cebu City
Ho Chi 
Minh City 
Da Nang
Vientiane
• An expressway in Vientiane is being developed to mitigate the congestion in the city center.
• Also, a rapid transit system is being designed, along with a organized parking area to reduce the on-street parking within the city.

29
Leveraging mobile applications and autonomous driving technology can 
enhance the convenience of the residents within the city. 
Example: Mobility
Kawasaki City (Kanagawa) – Shinyuri MaaS Town of Sakai (Ibaraki) – Autonomous Bus Vehicles
• Tourism 
Information
• Transportation 
Information
Search
Residents
Education and 
Commercial 
Facilities
Visit
Coupons for 
Transportation 
Information Sharing
• Residents can search for real-time information of schedule and 
congestion regarding the transportation, and also request for 
transportation through the app.
• Also, the city will partner with education and commercial facilities, in 
to promote the usage of public transportation within the city. 
Mobile app: 
EMot
• First autonomous bus which run on a fixed schedule and stops in 
Japan. 
• The bus runs automatically in a distance of approximately 6km, as a 
round trip, in which the bus is free of charge.
Source: MLIT, Town of Sakai

30
Infrastructure to manage flooding can be used as a solution to resolve other 
issues and challenges such as traffic congestion. 
Example: Urban Resilience
• The SMART tunnel was built to alleviate the flood problem in 
Kuala Lumpur.
• The tunnel diverts the water to go through the tunnel, to reduce 
the amount of water entering flood prone areas within the city.
Kuala Lumpur: Stormwater Management and Road Tunnel (SMART) – Solution to Mitigate Flooding
• In addition to mitigating flood issues, the tunnel also helps 
reduce traffic congestion, by providing an alternative route for 
motorists, to travel around the city centre. 
Source: SMART webpage 
Impact on Traffic Congestion Reduction

31
Leveraging a 3D city model, can help understand how disasters may impact the 
city, and what is the optimal escape route for citizens, to minimize the risks
Example: Urban Resilience
MLIT and Various Cities in Japan – Project Plateau 
• MLIT provides a 3D urban city model in Japan, in which the platform is open publicly as open data. The data for each city can be accessed freely by 
the cities, and can be used for various use cases, which includes simulation to enhance urban resilience.
Tottori City (Tottori) – Use Case: Simulation for Flooding 
• Pilot program for simulation on how the water spreads during 
flooding was conducted, using Plateau data platform.
• Results were shared in a seminar which included local university, city 
office, and local residents, in which discussion on how to optimize the 
escape route leveraging the technology was discussed.
Toranomon Area (Tokyo) – Use Case: Escape Route Simulations
• In the business district Toranomon area, 3D visuals on the building 
data by the construction year (e.g. red: built before 1970) was 
developed, using the Plateau data platform. 
• The data was used to understand what is the optimal escape route, 
as data to support companies, when conducting disaster escape 
practice.
Source: MLIT

32
Partnership with external organizations in terms of funding and expertise, will 
help drive the development and implementation for digital skills. 
Example: Education
DKI Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur, and Manila: Education Programs to Enhance Digital Skills 
City Name Program Name Program ContentsOrganizers
DKI 
Jakarta
Kuala 
Lumpur
Manila
Reducing digital & 
information and 
communication 
technology
(ICT) gap for the 
community 
Online marketing 
upskilling program
Providing tablets 
and wifi for public 
schools
• Program to help citizens from marginalized groups such as single 
mothers and low-income households, by providing skills to sell 
products online.
• Robotics education for kids.
• SASBADI Online - Software sponsored by Bank Rakyat as ICT-based 
learning aid for students from B40 groups.
• 110,000 tablet devices equipped with Globe SIM cards and 11,000 
laptops paired with Globe pocket WiFis were provided for the city 
educators, in partnership with Globe telecom.
• LA21KL (Unit from the City Hall of Kuala Lumpur)
• External partners
o NGOs 
o Bank Rakyat Foundation 
o Malaysian Communication and Multimedia 
Commission
JSC Academy 
JakPreneur
• Program for provision and development of digital platforms in the 
field of education and training to support digital transformation.
• Program for the creation, facilitation, and collaboration of MSME 
(micro, small & medium enterprises) development through the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem, such as start-ups, educational 
institutions, and financing institutions.
• Jakarta Smart City 
• External Partners
o Private companies (e.g. PT Telkom, Go-Jek, Grab)
o NGOs 
o Universities
o International Organizations
• Department of Social
• External Partners
o Private companies (e.g. Go-Jek, Grab, Shopee, 
Tokopedia)
o Financial Institutions
• City Government of Manila
• Globe Telecom
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire; Globe Telecom

33
Partnering with the local universities will help increase local digital talents, and 
address local issues by leveraging data and digital partnerships.
Example: Education
Aizuwakamatsu City (Fukushima) – IT Skills Improvement 
Osaka City (Osaka) – Partnership Platform between 
Academic and Public Sector
• Collaborates with Aizu University, a university specialized in the 
research, innovation, and development of analytics talent for ICT, to 
educate analytics talents in the city. 
• Many of the graduates are recruited to work in the city office as well.
Osaka Prefecture / Osaka City / 
University Joint-Platform
Data Management 
Center 
• Store, analyze, 
and utilize data Project 
XXX
Project 
XXX
Project 
XXX
Data Cleansing
Data • Data Source: Osaka Prefecture / Osaka City
Budget and facility 
is allocated for 
each project. 
• Osaka City University and Osaka Prefecture University plans on 
becoming integrated into a new university, in which a joint platform 
between the new university and the local administration is planned to 
be developed, to leverage data to address local challenges.
Source: Laboratory for leading-edge ICT (LICTiA), Osaka Prefecture, Smart City Guidebook (Japan) 

34
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

35
Business process for smart city development can be categorized into 5 key steps,
spanning from the conceptual phase to the enhancement phase.
Process for Smart City Development
Conceptual
Phase
Preparation
Phase
Plan (Strategy)
Development
Phase
Pilot and 
Implementation
Phase
Enhancement
Phase
Five Steps for Smart City Development
Actions to be taken within each stepOverview of the steps
To initiate smart city development, and align on the 
objectives of building the smart city.
• Clarify the background and objectives of smart city 
development.
• Strengthen the organizational structure within local 
government.
To decide on the overall direction, and share the 
vision with the citizens.
• Develop the partnership structure of core 
stakeholders.
• Share the structure and vision to the citizens of the 
city.
To develop the organizational structure for smart city 
development, and share the vision with the citizens.
• Develop the primary promoter for the smart city 
project.
• Develop the detailed plan to achieve smart city 
development.
To conduct pilot projects, and gradually implement 
the solutions within the smart city. 
• Conduct pilot programs, to enhance the plan, check 
the feasibility, and receptiveness by the community.
• Implement the plan, based on the plan and the pilot 
project results.
To monitor the implementation and enhance the 
services.
• Monitor the implementation, to ensure that the 
services take root in the community.
• Continuously update and refine the services, based 
on the monitoring results.
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan)
Process for Smart City Development

36
Johor Bahru identify the issue / difficulty, capability, funding, and outcome at 
first.
Example: Conceptual Phase
• Overview of the phase: To initiate smart city development, and align on the objectives of building the smart city.
• General actions: 1. Clarify the background and objectives of smart city development.
2. Strengthen the organizational structure within local government.
Johor Bahru: Actions in the Conceptual Phase
Issue / difficulty
Capability readiness
Funding
Outcome
Overview of the actions
• Use focus group discussions to ask each city what are the issues or difficulties the city is facing which can be 
mitigated using smart city solutions.
• Current 3 key projects: 
o 1) Big data platform: utilized in healthcare sector, transportation etc.
o 2) Integrated transportation system. 
o 3) River monitoring and management tool: a consultant is currently doing feasibility study. 
• Consider capability readiness.
• The strategy to drive the smart city development is to encourage public and private collaboration where the private 
sector provides fund and public sector facilitates operation. 
• Consider funding.
• The strategy for each city depends on their size and economic / financial conditions in which the development can be 
divided into 3 categories; 
o 1) Small project - focus on low-cost development such as green sustainability project e.g. recycling program. 
o 2) Intermediate – add in technology but may not necessarily connected to the operation center / device. 
o 3) Big program – the project where every equipment / infrastructure being developed is connected to the city 
data platform e.g. smart traffic light whose data is gathered at the center and used to form decision. 
• Consider outcome (level of impact).
• Current situation: Pilot projects are being implemented on a small scale where successful projects could be expanded 
to other cities.
Items to consider
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire

37
A government-wide support system for the dispatch of experts have been 
established, and some municipalities have set up a DX strategy office.
Example: Conceptual Phase
Support system for the dispatch of experts by Government
Features of the system
1. Covering 26 fields 
including open data, 
network 
infrastructure and 
human resources 
(HR) development
2. A total of 207 
people were 
appointed in 2020
Website of the association
• The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC) has 
commissioned experts who are familiar with solving regional 
issues through ICT and data utilization as "Regional 
Informatization Advisors" and dispatches them upon request 
from local governments.
• Applicants can receive up to three days of dispatch per 
application, without bearing the burden of travel expenses and 
honorarium for the expert.
Bandai Town (Fukushima): 
Digital Transformation (DX) Strategy Office
• In order to promote digital transformation (DX), the Digital 
Transformation Strategy Office was established as a cross-
agency organization under the direct control of the Deputy 
Mayor, in accordance with the Town Comprehensive Plan and 
the Town Division Establishment Ordinance.
• This is a time-limited organization that assumes three years to 
promote DX. In three years, they aim to make the 
management structure of the office in principle for the whole 
organization.
Mayor Deputy 
Mayor
Accountant 
General
General Affairs Division
Policy Division
Civic Section
Agriculture and Forestry Division
Construction Division
Commerce, Industry and Tourism 
Division
Accounting Office
Chief Digital 
Officer
Digital Transformation Strategy 
Office 
Organization 
Structure 
in Bandai Town
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Bandai Town website

38
• Overview of the phase: To decide on the overall direction, and share the vision with the citizens.
• General actions: 1. Develop the partnership structure of core stakeholders.
2. Share the structure and vision to the citizens of the city.
In cities that did not have a master plan, the master plan is currently under 
development by leveraging international support.
Example: Preparation Phase
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire, ASCN Smart City Action Plans 2018
Lao PDR: Leveraging international support for master plan development
OverviewCity
• Vientiane has not had a smart city master plan yet. 
• It is in the process of developing a master plan supported by MLIT and the consulting team, which will take 5-6 months to 
complete the draft plan and to propose to the governor. 
• Strategic targets and issues are below:
o Good public healthcare system.
o Easy access to public services with e-government applications.
o Affordable housing schemes.
o Clean environment.
o Urban resilience with fewer flooding incidents.
Vientiane
• Luang Prabang has not had a smart city master plan yet. 
• It is in the process of developing a master plan by cooperating with the Ministry of Public Work and Transportation and 
external consulting company (OCG Consulting). Expected to complete by March 2022. 
o Master Plan Study for Smart City Development in Luang Prabang City was launched as the first project of the Smart 
JAMP project by MLIT.
• Within the plan, the strategy follows the Lao PDR national policy. 
• Strategic targets and issues are below:
o Implement a replicable urban waste management and sewage solution on a public private partnership (PPP) mode.
o Develop proper solid waste treatment systems.
o Restore all wetlands in the city and preserve natural spaces along the Mekong River and Namkhan River.
o Accommodate the expected growth in tourism industry while preserving the values of the world heritage site.
Luang Prabang

39
Some municipalities have developed a smart city vision and shared it with local 
citizens through town meetings and smart city declaration by the mayor.
Example: Preparation Phase
Aizuwakamatsu City (Fukushima): Sharing through town meetings Kaga City (Ishikawa): Smart City Declaration
• In the 7th Comprehensive Plan of Aizuwakamatsu City, which is 
the city's top-level plan (FY2017~2026), "Smart City 
Aizuwakamatsu" is positioned as one of the 3 major 
perspectives in order to promote the creation of a strong 
community with sustainability and resilience and a safe and 
comfortable place to live in the future.
• In formulating the Comprehensive Plan, the city has conducted 
citizen questionnaires and town meetings to share its policies 
with citizens and reflect their opinions in the plan.
Vision for Urban Development
Walking Together, Creating Together "Onko Soshin" 
in Aizuwakamatsu
Basic concept in the comprehensive plan
Theme 1
Theme 2
Towards a town where 
people shine
Towards a town where 
we build together
Theme 3 Towards a town that 
continues to connect
Perspective 1: Smart City Aizuwakamatsu
Perspective 2: Job Creation
Perspective 3: Optimization of public 
facilities and administrative services
• Kaga City announced the "Kaga City Smart City Declaration," 
which sets the basic philosophy of "realizing a human-
centered future society" and the principles of operation on 
March 30, 2020.
• At the same time, the "Smart City Kaga Concept" and the 
"Kaga City Public-Private Data Utilization Promotion Plan" 
were formulated, setting forth the direction for realization and 
the basic policy for the utilization of various data.
Public
sector
Private 
sector
Human-centered
(citizens, visitors, tourists)
Transformation from government-led urban 
planning optimized for individual fields to 
human-centered urban planning optimized for 
the whole, based on public-private partnerships.
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Aizuwakamatsu city website, Kaga city presentation material

40
In Viet Nam, city-level master plans have developed based on national-level 
plan.
Example: Plan (Strategy) Development Phase
• Overview of the phase: To develop the organizational structure for smart city development, and share the vision with the citizens.
• General actions: 1. Develop the primary promoter for the smart city project.
2. Develop the detailed plan to achieve smart city development.
Viet Nam (Da Nang, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City): Master Plans at National and City Level
• Viet Nam's Sustainable Smart City Development Plan for 2018-2025 and 2030 Vision:
o The plan and vision was announced by the Prime Minister in 2018.
o Goal: To develop at least 6 smart cities in Viet Nam by developing 4 pilot smart cities and linking networks. 
o Phase: Planning (~2020), Implementation (~2025), and Networking (~2030).
• 10 group of tasks, solutions: (1) Reviewing, researching, and improving policies, (2) Improving the system of standards and 
regulations, (3) Establishing a database system, (4) Applying smart technology in urban planning and management, (5) Developing 
smart urban infrastructure, (6) Developing smart utilities, (7) Developing capacity for smart city, (8) Increasing mobilization of 
resources, (9) Promoting international cooperation and technology transfer, (10) Raising awareness.
National level
City 
level
Da Nang Hanoi Ho Chi Minh City
Vision
Master Plan
Focus Area
• By 2030, aim to become a smart, 
liveable and sustainable city, while 
ensuring economic growth and 
competitiveness.
• By 2030, aim to be a green, culturally 
rich, civic and modern city with 
sustainable development to improve 
people's lives.
• By 2025, achieve rapid and 
sustainable economic development 
through optimal resource use and 
citizen-centred governance.
• Da Nang's construction plan has a 
vision for the target year of 2050 and 
a comprehensive construction plan 
up to 2030.
• There is a comprehensive plan for 
the construction of the capital city of 
Hanoi with a target year of 2030 and 
a vision for 2050.
• In 2008, the Ho Chi Minh City 
Metropolitan Region Plan was 
approved, which covers eight central 
municipalities and provinces.
• Smart Governance
• Smart Life
• Smart Mobility
• Smart Environment
• Smart Citizens
• Smart Economy
• Smart Transport
• Smart Travel
• Intelligent Operation Centres (IOCs)
• Smart Governance
• Smart Environment
• Smart Transport
Source: Ministry of Information and Communications and MLIT report

41
Kuala Lumpur Smart City Master Plan (2021-2025) focuses on 7 components 
under 3 phases of development.
Example: Plan (Strategy) Development Phase
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire result
Kuala Lumpur: Smart City Master Plan (2021-2025) 
Smart City Component
1. Smart Economy
2. Smart Living
3. Smart Environment
4. Smart People
5. Smart Government
6. Smart Mobility
7. Smart Digital Infrastructure
Sept 2020 Launch Kuala Lumpur Smart City Master Plan
Q1 2021 Short term (3-6 months)
◦Quick win deployment
Q4 2021 Medium term (6-12 months)
◦Performance review: quick win
◦Medium term projects deployment
Q2 2023 Long term (12-18 months)
◦Long term projects deployment
◦Performance review: Middle term projects
Q3 2025 Master plan revision
Implementation Roadmap
Smart City Vision and Strategy

42
Brunei Darussalam set up a Smart City Steering Committee to monitor the smart 
city development.
Example: Plan (Strategy) Development Phase
Bandar Seri Begawan: Consideration in the Plan (Strategy) Development Phase
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire
Digital Economy CouncilConsideration item
• Digital Economy Council is co-chaired by Minister of 
Finance and Economy II and Minister of Transport and 
Infocommunications, and provides the direction and 
steer on digital economy initiatives for Brunei Darussalam.
• A Digital Economy Masterplan 2025 was launched in 
2020.
Committee
• The Council focuses on the implementation of projects 
under ten priority clusters:
1) Logistics and transportation;
2) Energy;
3) Business services;
4) Tourism;
5) Financial services;
6) Health;
7) Agri-food;
8) Education;
9) Halal;
10) Construction.
Focus Area
Smart City Steering Committee
• Smart city initiatives and development are currently 
under the purview of the Smart City Steering Committee 
co-chaired by Minister of Development and Minister of 
Transport and Infocommunications with members from 
related agencies.
• The Committee also oversees alignment of initiatives to 
the Digital Economy Masterplan.
• A Smart City Action Plan has been drawn up providing 
basis for smart city development implementation.
• Five focus areas have been identified to further improve 
the efficiency of provision of services by technological 
utilization for built infrastructure:
1) Mobility;
2) Utilities (include water and electrical supply);
3) Buildings and Homes;
4) Safety and Security; 
5) Environment and Waste Management.

43
It is important to consider and formulate clear visions and goals and specific 
action plans for the realization of smart cities.
Example: Plan (Strategy) Development Phase
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Kashiwanoha Smart City Consortium, Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho District Smart City Promo tion Consortium
Kashiwa-no-ha (Chiba): Smart City Action Plan
Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho District (Tokyo):
Smart City Vision and Action Plan
• In March 2020, an action plan to create “A Smart and Compact City 
Centered on Train Stations” using new technologies and data such as AI 
and IoT was announced.
• Under the concept of "TRY the Future: A City that Continues to Evolve," 
the plan states that the city will promote urban development based on 
four themes and three strategies.
• In March 2020, an action plan to promote the "update and redesign of 
existing city" through PPP and area management in cooperation with 
the public and private sectors was published.
• The plan sets out the direction for improving the value of the area by 
making it smarter and realizing data-driven area management in order 
to achieve the goals and vision.
Theme①: Mobility Theme②: Energy
Theme④: WellnessTheme③: Public Space
4 themes + 3 strategies
Smart compact city with a station at the center
Strategy 1:
Building a private + public 
data platform
Strategy 2:
Stimulating open 
innovation through the 
platform for public-private 
academic collaboration
Strategy 3:
Cross-sectoral service 
creation
District objective: Vision-Oriented Smart City
The district has established "urban development guidelines" as its urban development goals, and in 
order to better achieve these goals, the district is working to become a vision-oriented smart city.
The smart city project is also unique as it is promoting the "updating and redesigning of existing 
city" for the mature society that Japan is facing, through “PPP and area management".
District development goals Otemachi, Marunouchi and 
Yurakucho Smart City
Direction of the city update
Direction of the city redesigning
Vision Oriented
Area Management
1. An international business city leading the way
2. A city of people, bustle and culture
3. A city of information exchange and dissemination
4. A city where elegance and vitality are in harmony
5. A convenient and comfortable city to walk
6. A sustainable city that coexists with the environment
7. A safe and secure city
8. A city where the community, gov. and visitors work 
together to nurture
9. A smart city that makes use of new technologies and data

44
Banyuwangi has implemented projects of public service and healthcare.
Example: Pilot and Implementation Phase
• Overview of the phase: To conduct pilot projects, and gradually implement the solutions within the smart city.
• General actions: 1. Conduct pilot programs, to enhance the plan, check the feasibility, and receptiveness by the community.
2. Implement the plan, based on the plan and the pilot project results.
• Issues to implement: Proof of concept (PoC) phase - Providing the citizens’ documents, proof of business (PoB) phase – Increasing 
the economic benefits to the people.
Banyuwangi: Implemented Projects Across the City
• The automated teller machine (ATM)-liked machine which will be 
able to provide some public service (by using identification (ID) card) 
at the citizen’s nearest convenient location. 
• This is the initiative to address one issue of the Banyuwangi that is 
inconvenience in getting public service at the city center as it takes a 
long commuting time (3 hours for the farthest village). 
Public Service
• Delivery of medicine to poor people by Go-Jek.
• So the people do not have to wait at the hospital and Go-Jek will 
deliver the prescribed medicine to their home.
Health & Economic
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire, Banyuwangi Regency

45
Chula Smart City collaborates with various partners in piloting and implementing 
mobility solution including electronic vehicles (EV) and charging stations. 
Example: Pilot and Implementation Phase
• Issues to implement: Monetization in each project. 
o Business model really depends on the project (e.g. size, funding scheme, and project owner). For example, project by Bangkok Metropolitan Administration is 
run by themselves, whilst for Chulalongkorn University they have the budget themselves, and invite alumni and start-ups to join the project (e.g. EV tuk-tuk).
EV 
Tuktuk 
Sharing
E-
Scooter
EV Car
Sharing
EV 
Charging 
Station
EV Tuktuk with MuvMi application pilot project for Urban Mobility 
Tech Co.,Ltd. within Chula smart city since 2018 to increase 
accessibility between mass transit and areas in the smart city.
30 E-Scooter with Leaf application and scooter parking spot of total 
20. The pilot project is a collaboration with MakeIO Co.,Ltd. before 
implemented in other areas.
Ultra-compact EV cars, Toyota Ha:mo with application to check car 
availability and location real time.
• Started pilot phase from 10 in 2017~2019.
• Currently increased to 30 cars in total.
EV Charging Stations with Evolt application to serve the increasing 
use of EV car in Chula smart city.
• Started pilot phase with 3 charger in 2019.
• Currently increased to 56 chargers in 24 stations.
Pilot and Implementation details
Urban Mobility Tech
(MuvMi app)
MakeIO
(Leaf app)
Evolt
PartnersService
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire, Samyan Smart City, News articles

46
It is important to confirm the response of users and installation/provision issues 
in PoC phase and to identify services and verify their sustainability in PoB phase.
Example: Pilot and Implementation Phase
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Arao Smart City Promotion Council
Arao City (Kumamoto): Casual Sensing and Everyday Human Health Checking (Healthcare)
• Issue: The rate of people receiving specific health check-ups is low, and the cost of treating lifestyle-related diseases is higher for those 
who have not received check-ups. 
• Solution: The city aims to extend healthy life expectancy by fostering health awareness and making it a habit to take actions that are 
good for physical and mental health through smart healthcare services such as daily health management recommendation services.
• In order to implement the system in society: 
o FY2020: PoC phase to verify its social acceptability.
o FY2021: PoB phase to verify the business model.
o FY2023: Enhancement phase to improve the service content and aim for social implementation.
FY2020: PoC phase
• Confirmation of the 
response of users 
(residents, etc.)
➡How much would they 
be willing to pay for the 
service?
• Confirmation of 
installation/provision 
issues.
➡Required resources, 
installation and 
management costs.
FY2021: PoB phase
• Identifying the services to 
be implemented.
• Verify the sustainability of 
the service by providing a 
prototype.
➡Verify the feasibility of 
the business, including 
cash flow.
FY2023:
Enhance
ment 
phase

47
Singapore implements nation-wide digital transformation through the Smart 
Nation initiative.
Example: Enhancement Phase
• Overview of the phase: To monitor the implementation and enhance the services.
• General actions: 1. Monitor the implementation, to ensure that the services take root in the community.
2. Continuously update and refine the services, based on the monitoring results.
Singapore: Singapore Smart Nation Initiative 
Sources: Smart Nation and Digital Government Office, Centre for Liveable Centres
• The Smart Nation initiative is about transforming Singapore using technology to improve the lives of our citizens and businesses, and to make Singapore an 
outstanding city where people can live, work and play in.
• To demonstrate digital transformation at the national level, one of the key digital infrastructure projects that Singapore has rolled out is the National Digital 
Identity ecosystem, which provides users with a single digital identity to transact with the Government and private sector organisations securely and more 
conveniently.

48
The smart city services have been expanding with the use of the City OS data 
which is used from the city’s open data provision infrastructure.
Example: Enhancement Phase
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Aizuwakamatsu City
Aizuwakamatsu City (Fukushima): Providing services using City OS
◼ In December 2015, the citizens' portal site and City OS “Aizuwakamatsu + (Plus)” have started operation.
⚫ The City OS is a website that displays recommended information on a priority basis according to personal attributes (age, gender, family 
structure, hobbies, etc.).
⚫ By registering a single ID and password, users can access multiple services in a one-stop service.
◼ 5 main services have already been linked to the City OS. (➡Further demonstrations of the payment service and others are underway.)
◼ The City OS data is used from the city's open data provision infrastructure "Data For Citizen" and other sources.
◼ The platform was developed, taking into consideration the issues for data usage such as protection of personal information, fair and ethical usage of 
data, and consideration of intellectual property and competitiveness of companies involved (※).
Service / 
Application
City OS
Data
Citizen portal site “Aizuwakamatsu+"
• Statistical data held by the city
• Administrative data (rubbish disposal), etc.
• Snowplow location data • Maternal and child health info
Snowplow 
Navigation
Service
Digital Service of 
Maternal and Child 
Health Handbook
School Information 
Service (Aizukko+) AI inquiry Service
Application Form 
Preparation 
Support Service
Open Data (“Data For Citizen”) Sensor Data Personal Data
※ 322 data set available (as of March 2021)

49
The service area was expanded in about two months after the launch of the 
service while securing volunteers and other necessities.
Example: Enhancement Phase
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Ina City
Ina City (Nagano): Gradual service area expansion of the drone shopping service
• Issue: It is difficult for elderly people who do not have their own cars to get around and go shopping in the mid-hill area. 
(The nearest supermarket is 11km away, and a bus takes 40 minutes one way, with only two services a day.)
• Solution: In 2020, a drone shopping service was implemented, which allows elderly people to use a familiar remote control to purchase 
items from a selection of about 300 items on a cable TV screen by 11 am, and have them delivered by drone or other means by evening. 
Research phase:
Shopping Conditions Survey
(January 2017)
• Recognizing that the 
number of people in the 
community who are 
vulnerable to shopping, such 
as those who need nursing 
care and the elderly living 
alone, is increasing every 
year.
➡Selection of areas with 
high demand.
Pilot phase: 
Development and Technical 
Demonstration (2018~)
• Development of technology 
for drones that be used as a 
route over the river.
• Finalization of cooperation 
procedures/specifications.
• Conducting a trial campaign 
to allow people to "try it 
out" without registration or 
usage fees 1 month before 
implementation.
Implement phase:
Launch the Service 
(August 2020)
•Started in 4 villages in Hase 
district.
•The service covers approx. 
600 households 
(including 150 elderly-only 
households).
Enhancement phase:
Service Area Expansion 
(October 2020)
•Expansion of the area to 9 
villages in 2 months 
(securing volunteers and 
other staffs.)
•Service coverage expanded 
to approx. 900 households 
(including 300 elderly-only 
households.)

50
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

51
Key stakeholders involved in the smart city can be broadly categorized into six 
types as below.
Overview of Stakeholders for Smart City Development
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Types of Stakeholders in Smart City
Service User (Beneficiary)
A
Service Provider
Primary Promoter
Investor / Provider of Data, etc.
Advisor Supervisor 
/ Checker
B
C
F
D E
Formulate overall Smart City strategy
Execute city 
management
Maintain / 
operate City OS
Objectives and Roles
• Receive benefits through use of the services, 
and pay compensation for them as needed.
• Provide and manage each individual service.
• Objectives of generating profit by provision 
of services and R&D and other activities 
utilizing the region for trials and 
implementations.
• Comprehensive promotion and operation of 
Smart City.
• Objectives of uplifting and developing local 
economy.
• Advise as an expert regarding Smart City 
promotion as a whole and direction of each 
service.
• Constantly check services provided and 
overall promotion, regularly provide 
instructions and feedback.
• Provide funding and data sometimes for 
compensation.
A
B
C
D
E
F

52
Wide range of players support the smart city development, contributing as 
different type of stakeholders, depending on how the smart city is organized.
Stakeholder Role by Player Type
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Stakeholder Role Each Player Type Typically Plays
Player Type
Public
Industry
Academia
Users
Civic Organizations
NPOs / NGOs
National Government
(Policy Maker)
Local and Regional 
Administrations
Local Companies
Non-Local Companies
State Owned 
Enterprises
Property Developers
Universities / 
Experts / Scientists
(Private) Research 
Institutes
Citizens
Visitors (Tourists, etc.)
Stakeholder Type within Smart City
A Service 
User
B. Service 
Provider
C. Primary 
Promoter D. Advisor E. Supervisor 
/ Checker
F. Investor / 
Data 
Provider
● ●
● ● ● ●
● ● ● ●
● ● ● ●
● ● ● ●
●
●
●
●
●
●
Description
Presents the nation-wide strategy for smart city development, and 
conducts monitoring and supports funding where required.
Presents the region-wide strategy for smart city development, and 
conducts monitoring and supports funding where required.
Provides knowledge based on local trends. Depending on the 
business model, may function as the primary promoter.
Provides knowledge based on nation-wide trends. Depending on 
the business model, may function as the primary promoter.
Provides service regarding the real estate and property 
development.
Provides advice based on academic and expert knowledge, and 
conducts advanced technology demonstration projects.
Provides advice based on expert knowledge, and conducts 
advanced technology demonstration projects.
Uses the service, and provides feedback based on the experience as 
a resident.
Uses the service, and provides feedback based on the experience as 
a visitor.
Provides feedback based on the consensus of residents’ opinions. Others

53
Primary promoter is an essential stakeholder, which is responsible for 
determining the overall direction of the smart city in the region.
Functions of the Primary Promoter
◼ They formulate the overall smart city strategy with the objectives of raising and developing the economy of the whole region,and 
functions as the player responsible for city management and operation / management of City OS to implement the strategy. 
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Examples of Main Functions Primary Promoter should Assume
Primary Promoter
Smart City overall management & strategy 
formulation
i
C
City OS related
City OS operation & management
Asset and data management & operation
Security
vi
vii
viii
City management related
Organization operation & management
Rules setting & management
Marketing & public relations
ii
iii
v
Business development & management
iv

54
The details of each function is below. One of the important functions is 
marketing & public relations, to have the users acknowledge the availability of 
each service and how to use it properly in the region.
Functions of the Primary Promoter
• In many cases, it is also necessary to get funding and participation from business entities and to attract tourist and incoming migrants.
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Main function
Examples of Main Functions Primary Promoter should Assume (Details)
Description
• Formulate and manage overall strategy of Smart City, and perform overall management to realize 
Smart City according to the strategy.
Smart City overall management & strategy 
formulation
Organization operation & management • Supervise stakeholders, establish and manage primary promoter to make the whole Smart City 
function smoothly.
Business 
development & 
management
Service development & 
management
Rules setting & management
Financial management
Marketing & public relations
City OS operation & management
Asset and data management & operation
Security
i
ii
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
viii
• Establish and manage rules and guidelines necessary for the promotion of Smart City.
• Develop services through experience design for each field of business conducted in Smart City in the 
region, and manage services provided and managed by each service provider.
* Subcommittee, etc. for each business field may also be assumed.
• Build and manage business model with the aim of sustainable management of the whole Smart City, 
and manage all the financial matters which may arise.
• Manage public relations for the country and other communities as well as residents, tourists, and 
business operators, and work as a point-of-contract for information collaboration.
• Develop and operate digital systems including City OS, and determine and manage the application 
programming interface (API) of services, federations to other communities, etc.
• Manage assets in the region, acquire and store data from residents, public administration, service 
providers, etc., analyze them, and promote their utilization by the whole Smart City.
• Ensure security of the whole digital systems including from City OS to services and assets.

55
Clarifying the roles & responsibilities within the primary promoter for each 
function supports an efficient strategy development and implementation.
Example: Primary Promoter
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire
DKI Jakarta – Responsible Departments for the Primary Promoter Functions 
Main function Responsible Departments within DKI Jakarta
• DKI Jakarta and Jakarta Smart City leadersSmart City overall management & strategy 
formulation
Organization operation & management • Jakarta Smart City leaders i.e. the director, head of subdivision 
of administration, and all head and executive units
Business development & management
Rules setting & management
Marketing & public relations
City OS operation & management
Asset and data management & operation
Security
i
ii
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
viii
• Legal Compliance Team together with the leaders
• Product Development and Analytics Division
• Communications Division, Marketing Division 
• Data Analysis Division
• Network and Infrastructure Division
• Product and Service Development Division

56
Forming a primary promoter, via companies with diverse solutions, helps address 
the various challenges in the smart city efficiently. 
Example: Primary Promoter
North Hanoi Smart City – Consortium for Smart City Development 
• In North Hanoi Smart City, a consortium which included major companies in the energy, telecommunication, technology, and marketing 
sector joined, to address diverse urban challenges within the city. 
Source: Sumitomo Corporation

57
Partnership with the academic and private sectors, and working closely with the 
key stakeholders in the city, will enhance the smart city development.
Example: Primary Promoter
Utsunomiya City (Tochigi) – U Smart Development Consortium
Private Companies 
(21 Companies)
Utsunomiya University
Waseda University
Utsunomiya-City
Collaboration
• Transportation business
• Shopping street 
• Tourism business
• Residents
Shares the issues 
and challenges 
Cooperates for 
pilot projects
• In Utsunomiya City, a consortium was developed to enhance partnership between the public and private sector, and to leverage 
advanced digital technologies.
• In the operation of the consortium, rules (e.g. non-disclosure agreements, clarification on the intellectual properties, etc.,) are developed 
so the stakeholders can collaborate efficiently under a common vision.
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan), Utsunomiya City
U Smart Development Consortium Stakeholders in the City

58
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

59
There are three basic business models which can be adopted by each one of the 
following primary promoter patterns.
Overview of Smart City by Business Model (Revenue Stream)
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Consortium-
led model
Local 
government 
(Public)-led 
model
Private-sector-
led model
A
B
C
• Model in which local consortium consisting 
of local companies and local government, 
etc. leads smart city in the region.
• Primary promoter (consortium) receives 
contribution from Local government and 
company and collects user fees from various 
service providers.
• Model in which mainly local government 
(public) leads smart city. Model with the 
collaboration of multiple municipalities can 
also be assumed.
• Primary promoter (Local government) 
receives subsides from national government 
and collects user fees from various service 
providers.
• Model in which mainly private companies 
lead smart city in the region. Rather than 
local government-by-local government, 
model promoting smart city transformation 
of the specific area / green-field type can be 
assumed.
• Primary promoter (Private sector) collect 
user fees from service providers.
Model Overview Business Model Illustration
Beneficiary
Service 
Provider
Local 
government
Local 
company
National 
governmentConsortium
City OS
Service
User fees User fees
＄ ＄
Authorization 
to use City OS
Contribution
＄
Contribution
＄
＄
Subsides
Primary Promoter
Beneficiary
Service 
Provider
National 
government
Local 
government
City OS
Service
User fees
＄
Authorization 
to use City OS
＄
Subsides
Beneficiary
Service 
Provider
National 
government
Private sector region 
development company
Service
User fees
User fees＄
＄
Authorization 
to use City OS
＄
Subsides
Subsides
＄
City OS
Smart City Basic Business Model Patterns
＄
User fees

60
In ASEAN cities, local governments are driving smart city development, and there 
are few private sector-led patterns. Some cities have formed consortium with 
local and foreign private companies to lead the development on a project basis.
Example of Business Model (Revenue Stream) in ASEAN Cities
BRN KHM IDN LAO MYS MMR PHL SGP THA VNM
BSB BA PP SR MA BA DJ LP VI JB KL KK KU NPT MA YA CC DC MA SGP BA CH PH DN HA HCM
■: Business model 
applied for the city
Consortium-
led model
Local 
government 
(Public)-led 
model
Private-sector-
led model
A
B
C
Smart City Business Model in Each City
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire

61
Main monetization points for the key players are providing the service / 
application, hardware & maintenance, digital platform (City OS), and general 
construction & real estate development businesses.
Overview of Smart City Monetization
Source: NRI Smart City Report
Monetization Points for the Key Players 
Examples of service and business
Service / Application
Hardware & 
Maintenance
Infrastructure
Digital Platform 
(City OS)
Construction
Real Estate
Mobility service
Sensor
Energy
Data infrastructure / Networks / API management / Data management & analytics
Housing
Asset management & Property management
Energy 
management 
service
Monitoring camera
Transport
& Mobility
Office
Healthcare service
Electric equipment
Security
Retail
Incubation service
Ventilation 
& Lighting
Water
Hospital
Community service
Consumer 
electronics
Waste & Sanitation
Station
Real estate sales & leasing
Service
Hardware/
Infrastructure
Platform
Construction/
Real estate

62
Monetization through service fees and membership fees will help enhance 
financial sustainability for services within the smart city.
Example: Smart City Monetization
Ina City (Nagano): Service Fee for Drone Delivery Service 
Overview
• If resident orders from 300 items available 
by 11am, will be able to receive the products 
by evening time, from drone.
Timeline • Implemented in FY 2020. 
Service Fee • Users pay JPY1,000 per month.
• The seller also pays 10% of the total sales.
Result
• Users: 47 households (Pays JPY1,000 per 
household; October 2020)
• Sellers: Pays 10% of the total sales of 
JPY129,759 (November 2020)
Kyoto Prefecture: Membership Fee for Data Platform
Overview
• Through collaboration between academic, 
industry, and public sector enhance efficient 
data usage, and develop new business 
through business matching.
Establishment • Established in November 2018.
Annual
Membership 
Fee
• Large companies: JPY200,000.
• Mid to small sized companies: JPY100,000.
• Smaller companies: JPY30,000.
• Start-ups: JPY10,000.
Members
• 100 organizations (Private companies, 
universities, research institutions, 
administration, etc.)
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan)

63
The cost for services provided in the smart city are paid by the residents, private 
sector, or from the public sector, depending on the costing type. 
Overview of Smart City Costing Allocation
Private
Sector
Local Government
Residents
(User of the service)
Overview 
• Users of the services 
provided in the smart 
city pay the fee for 
the services which 
was used.
• Private sector makes 
investments towards 
the smart city, to 
receive long-term 
return.
• Local government 
funds for the services 
using tax, to solve 
issues arising in the 
society.
Benefits for the 
Stakeholder
• More convenient 
lifestyle
• Higher safety and 
security
Example of
Sources of Finance
• Revenue increase
• Increase in 
convenience due to 
improvement in the 
services provided by 
the local government
• Can provide higher 
quality government 
services
• Service fees
• Data usage fee
• Investment from 
company
• Business 
improvement district 
(BID)
• Tax 
• Social impact bond 
(SIB)
• Pay for success (PFS)
Costing Allocation by Stakeholder Type 
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan)
Issues & 
Challenges
• Providing benefits to 
the users, for the cost 
they are paying. 
• Understanding what 
the future income 
stream would be, for 
decision making 
regarding investment 
plans.
• Difficult to account 
for the ordinary 
expenses, given that 
the budget is set on 
a single-year basis.

64
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

65
Continuing to engage with the citizens on a long-term basis, to raise interest and 
enhance active communication, will be the key to promote citizen participation.
Overview of Citizen Participation
Enhance active 
communication from 
the citizens
Continuously engage 
on a 
long-term basis
Raise interest from 
the citizens
Solutions to overcome the 
issues & challenges
• Communicate efficiently on what a ‘smart city’ refers to, 
and the benefits for the citizens, to raise interest to 
participate in the initiatives.
• Ensure that the information is provided to the citizens 
transparently, and enable all citizens to be able to 
participate, by leveraging communication tools such as 
online surveys.
• Work step-by-step on a long-term basis, and provide 
successful experiences which residents will be able to 
feel that they had contributed to. 
Common issues & challenges
for citizen participation 
• Citizens are typically not familiar with the 
concept of smart cities, and may not be 
interested in participation.
• Initiatives provided by the local government may 
be a one-sided communication, which citizens 
do not actively communicate.
• Due to the low awareness of smart city initiatives, 
in order for the citizens to actively participate in 
the smart city development, it can take a long 
period of time.
Key Focus Points for Enhancing Citizen Participation
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan)

66
Many cities are using a variety of methods to engage citizen participation.
Example: Examples of Citizen Participation in ASEAN Cities
Jakarta • Using social media through packaging interesting information, such as Instagram @jsclab, YouTube channel Jakarta Smart City.
Siem Reap • Social media platforms and national media are now the leading platforms to communicate with the locals. 
• Some SMEs and Social Enterprises are doing workshops as well.
Battambang • Seminars, conferences, workshops and social media.
Mandalay • To enhance citizen participation for mobile apps for this area, leverage media such as newspaper and social media websites.
Phuket • Aims to raises awareness and create opportunities for stakeholders to meet each other, by organizing events and campaigns.
• Leverages pilot projects to illustrate to the citizens how smart city can make a difference, and generate interest towards in investing in money.
Davao City • Broadcast media and social media platform.
• Video conferencing, webinars and other online platforms.
Bandar Seri 
Begawan
• Project that have been/planned to incorporated citizen participation are;
o The flood warning system which will be opened for the public to provide information/complaint on its operation in the future.
o Channel for the public to give opinion/feedback/complaints on government public services through mobile application (e.g. WhatsApp, Smart 
Kampung) and call center.
Nay Pyi Taw • There is survey and interviewing local inhabitants on public services such as water supply, apply business license, waste collection, public 
transportation in some selected areas in the city.
Yangon • Through workshops and the Yangon City Development Committee (YCDC) website.
Phnom Penh • Strengthen the capacity of professional officers through the establishment of workshops, public input, as well as listening and discussing with 
counterparts in order to promote and improve the city's challenges.
Vientiane • To get citizen opinion, all public service departments are providing contact number to be easily reached by the citizen and to provide suggestion on 
public service as quickly as possible.
Kota Kinabalu • There are initiatives to enhance citizen participation in waste management by gathering opinions/issues from the citizen in the targeted areas.
Banyuwangi • Seminar with support from industry expert, academy.
• Periodical workshops, and application to gain public opinion/Q&A.
Cebu City • To get citizen participation, the city initially did public hearing/council to gain opinion from the citizen.
Kuching • The city provides the open platform/API where the start-ups can participate in the smart city development as well as other multi-channels where the 
city can provide timely information (Covid-19 cases update) to the citizen and the citizen can also report on crime, disaster as well as provide 
feedback and complaint on public service to the local government as well.
Luang Prabang • Currently, participation takes place farthest at the village leader level not the citizen i.e. through mobile application (e.g. WhatsApp, WeChat or 
others approved by the Ministry of Technology and Communication) which the representative thinks it is not sufficient and aims for development of 
ICT through international collaboration in the future.
Manila • The Go Manila App was initially developed to provide the real time traffic information. 
• Now it is expanding to facilitate transactions between both individual (i.e. public service) and business (i.e. business approval) and the government. 
Intentionally, the app aims to touch on individual people in informal sector to access the system and in turn, the local government will have the 
information of the citizen. 
• For the Go Manila app, the target is to have 80% of all Manila citizens registering in the app by the next 3 years (currently, around 20-30K business 
owners are using the go Manila app).
Enhance 
active 
communicati
on from the 
citizens
Continuously 
engage on a 
long-term 
basis
Raise interest 
from the 
citizens
City Initiatives in detail 
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire

67
Jakarta has developed the systems called CRM and Musrenbang to collect 
citizen’s complaints and opinations for improving the smart city development.
Example: Citizen Participation 
DKI Jakarta: Citizen Relations Management
Musrenbang (Citizen Participation for City Development Plan)• To answer challenges such as resolving citizens' complaints and 
improve services to the citizens, the Jakarta Provincial Government 
continues to innovate, one of which is by developing Cepat Respon 
Masyarakat (Citizen Relations Management) or CRM.
• The CRM system consists of a platform of 14 channels of official 
community complaints. 
• Before there was CRM, so that community reports could be completed, 
there was a long process that had to be followed by the Regional 
Apparatus (OPD). As a result, the public waited a long time to know the 
updates from their reports. 
DKI Jakarta Provincial Official Complaints Channel
Geo-tagging 
based channels
Social media-
based channels
Face-to-face 
channels
1. Qlue
2. JAKI (Jakarta Now)
3. Twitter @DKIJakarta
4. Facebook for DKI Jakarta Provincial Government
5. Governor's Social Media
6. Jakarta.go.id
7. E-mail to dki@jakarta.go.id
8. SMS to 08111272206
9. Text to LAPOR 1708
10. Sub-District Office,
11. District office,
12. Mayor's office,
13. City Hall,
14. Inspectorate Office
• A program called “e-Musrenbang” has been implemented by Jakarta 
Provincial Government since 2015 to formulate the Annual Regional 
Development Plan called RKPD.
• It allows citizens to propose a public program to involve to the 
governance. The proposals can be accessed via the website or the 
application (planJKT). Both platforms can also be used to submit a 
direct proposal. 
Source: Jakarta Smart City, JMC IT Consultant

68
Leveraging mobile apps and websites which the resident can easily voice out 
opinions, will help enhance active communication from the citizens.
Example: Citizen Participation 
Mobile App (Used in Multiple Cities in Japan) - FixMyStreet Japan
Kakogawa City (Hyogo) 
Decidim (Platform for Communication on Policies)
• Mobile app which is used by over 20 cities within Japan, in which the 
residents can upload pictures regarding issues observed within the city 
(e.g. road damages, lighting failures, etc.,) for the city government to 
address. 
• Platform, which the city can seek for opinions from the residents and 
discuss regarding policies.
• When developing the smart city plan, the city asked for ideas on the 
platform.
Picture: Asking for opinions regarding the name of the mixed use facilities 
which will be built within the city
Source: FixMyStreet Japan, Kakogawa City, Smart City Guidebook (Japan) 
Picture: Residents providing information about the issues caused to the 
road (e.g. road filled up with snow, water flooding from the road, etc.) 

69
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Example for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

70
City OS is the core for digital infrastructure in smart city, in which data linkage 
and providing clear rules for data usage will be key to successful implementation.
Overview of Digital Infrastructure Development
Development of 
City OS
Development of 
Smart City
Key Consideration Points for 
City OS Development
Conceptual
Phase
Preparation
Phase
Plan (Strategy)
Development
Phase
Pilot and 
Implementation
Phase
Enhancement
Phase
Five Steps for Smart City Development
Understand the necessity 
of City OS
Design the basic structure 
for City OS
Develop and implement 
the City OS
• Develop a City OS, in which the 
data can be used across 
business fields, services, and 
applications. 
• Aim to develop a City OS, in 
which can be interoperable 
with other cities, to provide 
services which can be used 
across a wider area.
Data Linkage and Utilization Rules for Data Management
• Continue to work towards 
ensuring the robustness of the 
data, and develop services 
which will be beneficial for the 
residents.
• Develop the rules for data 
utilization for each step of the 
data management such as data 
collection, data utilization, data 
storage, and data deletion.
• Monitor the process of data 
management, and continue to 
enhance the rules as the data 
usage and service develops.
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan)

71
City OS is designed with characteristics such as (1) interoperability (connectable), 
(2) heterogeneous data brokering (exchangeable), and (3) easy extensibility 
(sustainable) in order to solve the traditional issues of Smart City.
Characteristics of City OS
Characteristics of City OS and Smart City Reference Architecture
Ideal forms of City OS Reflecting onto City OS architecturePoints to be considered in architecture
(1) Interoperability
(2) Heterogeneous data 
brokering
(3) Easy extensibility
• Authentication as the basis inter operation.
• Service federation and management function.
• Asset (external data) federation and management 
function.
• Data management and external data federation to 
enable brokering of external data.
• Completeness of functions coverage.
• Combinations of functions as needed.
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Service federation
Authentication
Service management
Data management
Asset management
External data federation
Security
Operation

72
City OS consists of 8 components which manage the storage of data collected 
from various devices and systems utilized in the region, other systems, other City 
OSs, and federations to services within and outside the City OS.
Basic Functions of City OS
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper
Entity Relationship Diagram of City OS
Smart City Services
Smart City Assets (various devices and systems)
City 
OS
Authentication
Service management
Data management
Asset management
Functions
Data
Data 
federation
Service federation
External data federation
Security
Operation
Other City OSs
Other systems
Internet
Internet

73
Bangkok City Data Platform has implemented data catalog; data collection from 
government agencies and directories, which is currently providing 177 data sets. 
Example: Smart City OS
Sample Usage of Data from our City Data Platform : 
The number of infected people
177 Data sets is available for download
(i.e. Tourism data, drone registration, no. of 
population)
Source: Thailand Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA) 
Data Catalog Data governance Data exchange
Concept of City Data Platform
1 2 3
• Data collection from 
government agencies and 
integration into metadata 
• Directory service
• Data accuracy, consistency, 
completeness, freshness
• Data Security
• Data availability
• ID verification
• Access control
• Data Linkage
• Transaction logging
• Digital Signature
• Service status tracking
Bangkok: City Data Platform 

74
Setting clear rules and governance structure for data collection and utilization 
will help assure the citizens on data safety and enhance the data utilization.
Example: Smart City OS
Aizuwakamatsu City (Fukushima): Data Management Rules – Ensuring Opt-in by the Citizens 
• The opt-in from the citizens regarding data collection and usage by the development organization is required, based on understanding that the citizens 
should provide consensus on the data being collected and utilized, based on understanding that they will receive personalized service through the data.
Citizens
Voter
Aizuwakamatsu City
Policy Making
Smart City 
Development Organization
(AiCT and Local Companies)
Operation of City OS and Core Services
Provide data based on 
opt-in 
(=Agree on collection 
and usage of data)
Election, resident 
votes
Exchange 
opinions
Exchange 
opinions
Request city OS operation
based on overall policy and 
make revisions where needed 
Governance Structure for Data Management Each Stakeholder’s Responsibility for Data Management 
Super City Advisor
Aizu University
Advice
Advice
Monitor
Monitor
Collaborate
• Provide data to the development organization which operates the city-OS, 
based on opt-in (i.e. agree on collection and usage of data.)
• Provide opinions to the city, and monitor the city through the elections.
• Decide on the overall policy regarding data distribution, management, and 
usage, by listening to the opinions of the key stakeholders.
• Request for the smart city development organization to operate the city OS 
based on the overall policy, and make revisions accordingly where needed.
• Formed by the key companies which are responsible for the smart city 
development.
• Operates the city-OS and core services based on the overall policy 
developed by the city.
Source: Aizuwakamatsu City

75
Digital models can enhance the services provided in the cities, by conducting 
simulations from the data collected in the actual cities. 
Digital Model Technology
Overview of Digital Model / Digital Twins
Reality: Physical Space
• Cameras 
• Sensors
Virtual: Cyber Space
• 3D digital data 
• Urban infrastructure
• Buildings
• Geology
• Monitoring data
• Flow of people’s movement
• Logistics
• Energy
• Environment
Simulation
Usage of data
as information
Develop new services and 
enhance convenience
Usage of data as knowledge
Pilot projects and 
experiments
Data collection
and provision
• In a digital model / digital twin, a virtual cyber space is developed through the data collected from cameras and sensors in the cities.
• Simulations are conducted within the cyber space, in which the findings are used to develop new services and enhance the quality of life 
in the actual cities.
Source: Shimizu Corporation

76
Leveraging 3D city modelling technology and GIS data can help enhance the 
analysis on optimal usage of areas within the physical space.
Example: Digital Model and GIS Data Usage
Singapore: Virtual Singapore – 3D City Model 
• Singapore developed a dynamic 3D city model and collaborative data platform, 
intended for use by the public, private, people and research sectors. 
• Use case includes leveraging the data on heights of buildings and amount of 
sunlight available, to analyze which buildings have higher potential for solar 
energy production.
Source: National Research Foundation Singapore, NRI based on interview and questionnaire
Usage of GIS Data 
Nay Pi 
Taw
Yangon
• GIS database for urban area of Nay Pyi Taw was established and partially 
implemented (e.g. city road database) specifically within urban areas.
• GIS portal is under implementing stage.
• Uses GIS to document every sector of Yangon city.
• Current progress is at 80% building data and 50% zoning regulation data, in 
which target year for completion is 2025.
Johor 
Bahru
• Currently focused on developing an integrated Big Data Analytics platform 
called Iskandar Malaysia Urban Observatory (IMUO) that will leverage on GIS 
and Data Analytics Technologies.
• IMUO shall also leverage on on-going Local Authorities' Digital 
Transformation initiatives to achieve better city planning and management 
within each city and seamlessly between cities in the region.
• Nationally, the Ministry of Housing and Local Government (KPKT) is also in the 
progress of developing Malaysia Urban Observatory (MUO) concurrently with 
IMUO to integrate and analyze data at a macro and national level to assist in 
strategic decision-making and policies.
City / 
Country Description
Viet 
Nam
• The Ministry of Construction is conducting research on GIS upgrade to 
develop greener cities, aiming to implement and share to multiple cities 
within 2022.

77
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Examples for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

78
Ensuring that the goal is set based on the primary issue, and that the KPI for the 
goal is specific, measurable, and realistic is the key for strategy development.
Overview of Key Points when Setting KPIs
Issues and 
Background
Goals
Measures
Structure of
Strategy Development
Structure of
Strategy Development
Conduct research and evaluate what are the issues within 
the city and the root cause for the issue.
Identify the primary issue 
within the city.
Key Goal
Sub-Goal
Sub-Sub 
Goal
Sub-Sub 
Goal
Sub-Goal
Sub-Sub 
Goal
Sub-Sub 
Goal
Measure #2Measure #1 Measure #3
KPI
KPI KPI
KPI KPI KPI KPI
KPI KPI KPI
Consideration
Points
• Selection and concentration, to 
identify the primary issue is the 
key for effective strategy 
development.
• To set the KPI for the key goal 
and each of the sub goals and 
sub-sub goals.
• For the KPI, to ensure that it is 
the following:
o Specific, and easy to 
understand for all 
stakeholders.
o A quantitative goal which 
is measurable.
o The goal is realistic and 
achievable. 
• Monitor and evaluate the results 
based on the KPI regularly, and 
make refinements to the targets 
where needed.
Source: Smart City Reference Architecture White Paper

79
The KPI for the smart city is arranged by the Jakarta and Jakarta Smart City 
leaders which is included into Medium-Term Regional Development Plan.
Example: Setting KPIs
• The items to be evaluated in the KPI include total 7 topics with clear quantitative targets
Item Output indicator Operational definition
2020 2021
Target Achieved Target Achieved
Service Development
Number of public service 
applications integrated into the 
Jakarta Smart City application.
Number of public service 
applications integrated into the 
Jakarta Smart City application in 
1 year.
4 38 10 30
Public Opinion 
Response
Management
Number of response in Cepat 
Respon Masyarakat Platform.
Percentage of reports responded
in 1 year. 81.00% 99.85% 85.00% 94.11%
Information 
Dissemination of 
Service Development
Number of people who consume 
Jakarta Smart City service 
information.
Number of people who access 
information in 1 year. 200,000 9,960,971 500,000 25,961,502
Research and 
Development Program
Number of studies/research 
produced.
Studies/research produced in 1 
year. 16 234 20 234
Application 
Development Number of features developed. Number of features developed in 
1 year. 20 46 30 38
Infrastructure 
Development Number of servers in operation. Number of servicers in operation 
in 1 year. 2 3 3 3
Office Operations Number of available office 
operational needs.
Number of months available for 
office operational needs. 12 12 12 12
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire result
DKI Jakarta: Smart City KPI

80
Chonburi provides KPIs for 6 key areas, in which a quantitative target is provided 
for 2-4 indicators in each key area.
Example: Setting KPIs
Chonburi: Smart City KPI
Item (Key Areas) Indicator 2040 Target
1. Achieving sustainability through “Net Zero” emission 
Waste to Energy Generation 20 MW
Energy self reliance with smart grid management 100%
Renewable energy utilization rate 20%
Waste-water utilization rate 100%
2. Providing easy access and effective mobility
Public transportation utilization rate for commuters 50%
Green vehicle (hybrid, electric) utilization rate 20%
3. Enhancing quality of life and sustainable environment
Tenant occupancy rate 100%
Create walkable city, increase recreational walkway length 30%
Increase per capita public green space 20%
4. Linking top level education and innovation
No. of education facility 15
No. of R&D facility 10
% of skilled labor 30%
5. Fostering innovative technology based industry
Companies on targeted industries 50%
Services network coverage (4G, 5G, FTTX) 100%
Use of smart factory application 50%
6. Exhibiting healthy living style for all ages
Employees having a periodical medical-check up 100%
People working after 60 years old (% of senior executive levels) 10%
• The items to be evaluated in the KPI include 6 key areas, in which the target is provided by indicator for 2040.
Source: NRI based on interview and questionnaire result

81
Splitting steps to reach the key goal, and developing a specific, measurable, and 
realistic goal by step will help ensure that the progress can be evaluated clearly.
Example: Setting KPIs
Haneda Innovation City (Tokyo, Ota Ward): Smart City KPI 
• Ward-wide goal (e.g. increase in productivity) is set as a key goal (outside the smart city,) in which the process is divided into steps, which includes KPI for 
each step.
Smart Robotics
Key 
Goal Step 2 Step 1
• Leverage robots to 
enhance convenience 
and replace / support 
jobs.
• Improve productivity.
• Leverage diverse types 
of robots to replace 
tasks.
• Able to automatically 
control multiple 
number and types of 
robots simultaneously. 
Number of tasks 
replaced
Type of robots
Number of robots
10
50
10 
Efficiency Rate
Satisfaction Rate
+20%
80%
Increase the value 
added within district
Number of 
employees in 
district
+JPY 2.2 
trillion 
361,000 
people
FY20-21FY22-23FY24-
Smart Tourism
Key 
Goal Step 2 Step 1
• Make the tourism 
resources apparent.
• Create more bustle.
• Enhance tourism and 
the local community.
• Make the tourism 
resources apparent.
• Leverage human 
movement data to 
create more bustle. 
Visitors for HI City
Tourism service user
350,000 
people
per year
7,000 
people
Per day
Visitors going out 
from HI City to the 
Ota ward
200,000 
people / 
Year
Tourism 
expenditure
Tourism Visitors
JPY
202.5 bn 
/ Year 
45 mn 
people / 
Year
FY20-23FY24-
Source: Smart City Guidebook (Japan)
Steps Target KPI Steps Target KPI

82
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Example for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

83
Concluding Notes for Readers of ASEAN Smart City Planning Guidebook
Conclusion
Key takeaway 1:
Providing an optimal solution 
for each city's specific 
challenges leveraging advanced 
case studies will be effective 
• In this guidebook, the ASEAN Smart Cities Framework and ASUS were leveraged to provide case studies of 26 pilot 
cities in ASCN. Each city has its own unique challenges and is considering and providing a wide range of solutions to 
address them, in which the range of areas covered by the solutions is expanding as well.
• It is therefore important that the city's specific challenges are considered and identified by the local government, 
whom are the key players in smart city development, and other local stakeholders, and that the most appropriate 
solutions are considered and provided in order of priority.
• When considering the most appropriate solutions, it will be effective to seek, consider and collaborate on solutions 
which suit the target city, leveraging the advanced examples in each area introduced in this guidebook, as well as the 
examples from Japan as reference to gain further inspiration.
Key takeaway 2:
Identifying the appropriate 
timing for collaboration based 
on development stage will 
enhance development and 
investment
• In this guidebook, the Smart City Development Framework outlines the stages of smart city development in the 26 
ASCN pilot cities and the key enablers at each stage, in which smart city development in ASEAN cities has been 
progressing steadily since 2018, with all cities having considered and developed master plans and started to implement 
pilot solutions and full-scale solutions (many cities are working on both in parallel as well).
• Therefore, in the ASCN 26 cities, focus areas have been confirmed based on city-specific challenges, and now at the 
stage of exploring and diversifying the necessary digital technologies and solutions to address these challenges, in 
which many opportunities for collaboration among ASEAN Member States and with countries outside the region have 
become identified in each city.
• It is important to understand the potential and timing for expansion and collaboration in each city by referring to the 
development stage of each city and the current challenges and solutions introduced in this guidebook.
Key takeaway 3:
Collaboration between local 
stakeholders leveraging best 
practices will further drive 
efficient partnership
• In preparing this guidebook, the ASCN and ASEAN Secretariat have supported with providing insights to develop the 
guidebook, reaffirming that local governments, companies and the peoples are the key players in the development of 
smart cities in ASEAN cities.
• Therefore, it is most important to successfully involve local governments, businesses and residents when considering 
smart city development plans and the provision of technologies and solutions in new cities.
• Best practices regarding the collaboration between local governments and companies, as well as the engagement with 
local residents described in this guidebook will be beneficial when considering the development of smart cities and the 
provision of solutions.

84
Agenda
Introduction
1. Basic Understanding of Smart Cities
1.1 Background and Objectives for Smart City Development in ASEAN 
1.2 Principles and Frameworks for Smart City Development
2. Priority Areas for Development of Smart Cities
2.1 Overview and Example for the Priority Areas
3. Process and Enablers for Smart City Development
3.1 Process for Smart City Development
3.2 Key Enablers for Smart City Development
3.2.1 Development Organizations 
3.2.2 Financial Sustainability
3.2.3 Citizen Participation 
3.2.4 Digital Infrastructure (City OS)
3.2.5 Evaluation and KPIs 
Conclusion
Appendix
P7
P3
P7
P10
P14
P14
P34
P34
P50
P50
P58
P64
P69
P77
P82
P84

85
Brunei Darussalam
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 5,765
Population (thousand) 454 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 312 (75%) (in 2016)
458 (84%) (in 2050)
Capital Bandar Seri Begawan
Ethnicity Malay 66%
Language Malay (official language)
Religion Islam 79% (national religion)
Political System Constitutional monarchy
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 12,003
GDP per capita (US$) 1 26,462
Median Age 2 31
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3 94
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3 100
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 4 79
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 5 139
Governmental Direction
• In 2020, a national Smart City Steering Committee was set up and co-chaired 
by the Minister of Development and Minister of Transport and 
Infocommunications. A Smart City Action Plan is subsequently crafted to 
support the implementation of smart city development.
• A Digital Economy Masterplan 2025 is considered as a higher level master 
plan. As such, where the Digital Economy Masterplan defines certain key 
technologies (e.g. AI, big data, blockchain, IoT and automation,) the Smart 
City Action Plan will incorporate the deployment of these technologies in the 
smart city projects.
Partnerships with other countries
• South Korea and Brunei Darussalam have agreed in Seoul to strengthen their 
partnership on smart cities and other ICT-related programs. (November 24, 
2019.)
1 Brunei Department of Economic Planning and Statistics, Gross Domestic Product, Third Quarter 2021
2 Brunei Department of Economic Planning and Statistics, Report of the Mid -Year Population Estimates 2020
3 Brunei Ministry of Development, 2021
4 Brunei Authority for Info-Communications Technology Industry, ICT Household Report 2019
5 Brunei Authority for Info-Communications Technology Industry, 2021
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank, Brunei Department of Economic Planning and Statistics, Report of the Mid-Year Population Estimates 2020, 
Brunei Department of Economic Planning and Statistics, Population and Housing Census Update Final Report 2016 

86
Bandar Seri Begawan in Brunei Darussalam
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 100
Population (thousand) 100
Density (person/km2) 1,007
City Features
• The capital city of Brunei Darussalam.
• It is located in the lower Brunei River.
• The economy is backed by oil and natural gas 
development.
• Kampong Ayer is a prominent traditional 
settlement, comprising of neighborhoods of 
traditional houses, schools and mosques built 
on stilts above the Brunei River in Bandar Seri 
Begawan.
Vision
To develop Kampong Ayer as the Jewel of Bruneian Heritage and facilitate its 
growth as part of Bandar Seri Begawan’s smart city development plan.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• Kampong Ayer as part of Bandar Seri Begawan as the 
main tourist destination with its own unique 
characteristics such as its culture, treasures and historical 
heritage which create community identity and cohesion.
Health and 
Well-being
• Kampong Ayer will provide utilities and services, 
community facilities and recreational areas which are 
necessary for the promotion of vibrant social and 
cultural life.
Industry and 
Innovation
• Kampong Ayer as a center for opportunities for 
commercial development to create employment and 
spin offs for other SMEs businesses and livable social 
activities.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, Brunei Ministry of Home Affairs, 2021
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

87
Cambodia
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 181,000
Population (thousand) 16,720 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 3,161 (21%) (in 2014)
8,167 (36%) (in 2050)
Capital Phnom Penh
Ethnicity Cambodian 90%
Language Cambodian (Khmer)
Religion Buddhism (Majority)
Political System Constitutional monarchy
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 25,809
GDP per capita (US$) 1 1,544
Median Age 2 26
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 62
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 59
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 19
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 133
Governmental Direction
• Smart City plan is administered by the Ministry of Land Management, Urban 
Planning and Construction.
• Battambang, Phnom Penh and Siem Reap are set to be incorporated into the 
ASEAN Smart City Network.
• No integrated national master plan.
Partnerships with other countries
• Cooperation with the Korean government (2016) to build a smart city at
Sihanoukville with water management, transportation and energy
infrastructure based on Korean technology.
• Cambodia-Japan Urbanization Development (2019) is a coordination with the
Japanese government to provide of all services within its capacity and
promote business and investment opportunities in Cambodia to Japanese
investors.
1 World Bank, GDP (current US$); World Bank, GDP per capita (current US$) *Data for 2020
2 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2019) *Data for 2020
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank

88
Battambang in Cambodia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 115
Population (thousand) 161
Density (person/km2) 1,395
City Features
• Battambang City is the second largest city in 
Cambodia.
• It is located in the northwest of Cambodia 
about 300 kilometres away from the capital 
city Phnom Penh.
• The city is known for its activities associated 
with rice production and heritage buildings as 
well as its good quality living environment.
Vision
To achieve a socially responsible, environmentally friendly and economically 
successful city whilst retaining Battambang’s unique character.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social • Low cost housing and skill development for youth 
program is planned.
Quality 
Environment
• Additional drain and sewage infrastructure to move 
away from river-based natural waste management to 
sewage and wastewater management systems has been 
developed.
Build 
infrastructure
• Public infrastructure upgrade e.g. road improvement 
and organized market for street vendors has been 
planned.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

89
Phnom Penh in Cambodia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 693
Population (thousand) 2,800
Density (person/km2) 4,040
City Features
• Phnom Penh is the capital and administrative 
and cultural and economic center of 
Cambodia.
• It is located in southern Cambodia, where the 
Tonle Sap River and Mekong River join.
• Due to the recent economic growth, the 
construction of high-rise building and others 
is progressing.
Vision
To improve the urban environment to enhance citizen’s quality of life.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Built 
Infrastructure
• Sidewalks Rejuvenation Project which aims to increase 
pedestrian through the rejuvenation, restoration and 
repurposing of the sidewalks for 11 boulevards by 
managing unlicensed street vendors and illegal parking 
has been planned.
• To improve efficiency of Phnom Penh’s Public Transport 
Services that is user-friendly, environment friendly, 
innovative, the technology e.g. cash-less payment 
system and GPS tracking system has been introduced.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

90
Siem Reap in Cambodia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 425
Population (thousand) 268
Density (person/km2) 632
City Features
• Siem Reap is a resort town in northwestern 
Cambodia.
• It is a tourist spot with museums, 
traditional dance performances, a Cambodian 
cultural village, silk farms, rice paddies in the 
countryside and the home of Angkor Angkor 
temple.
Vision
To enhance Siem Reap's position as a beautiful, unique and ideal tourist 
destination, characterized by the harmony of Khmer history, arts and nature.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• Smart Tourist Management System with security 
systems such as CCTV and traffic sensors has been 
developed in some areas.
Safety and 
Security
• Infrastructure for personal safety and security has been 
in progress e.g. CCTV installation. Other targets include 
installation of road traffic sensors, pedestrian traffic 
sensors.
Quality 
Environment
• Environmental management infrastructure e.g. drainage 
sensor to measure water level and solid waste and 
wastewater management infrastructure has been 
planned.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

91
Republic of Indonesia
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 1,905,000
Population (thousand) 273,500 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 133,999 (53%) (in 2014)
227,770 (71%) (in 2050)
Capital Jakarta
Ethnicity Malay (Majority)
Language Indonesia
Religion Islam (87%), Christianity (10%)
Political System Presidential
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 1,058,424
GDP per capita (US$) 1 3,870
Median Age 2 30
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 62
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 71
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 22
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 132
Governmental Direction
• The implementation is decentralized to each city and administered by the 
Ministry of Home Affairs under Directorate General of Regional 
Administration.
• Smart City plan is carried out by ministries and agencies including the 
Ministry of Public Works and Public Housing.
• The master plan launched in 2013 aimed to develop 100 smart cities by 2019.
Partnerships with other countries
• Indonesia-Japan Smart City Virtual Forum (2020) through Japan Association 
for Smart Cities in ASEAN (JASCA)for sharing best practices and challenges in 
developing smart cities.
• Many projects are conducted through partnership with private sector for 
example, Huawei, China and PT. PINS Indonesia which Huawei provided end-
to-end public safety Smart City solution with key focus on omni-protection, 
rapid response and efficient case-solving.
1 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
2 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank, Secretariate Office of 
Indonesia-Japan Smart City Virtual Forum (2020), Huawei’s website

92
Makassar in Republic of Indonesia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 199
Population (thousand) 1,770
Density (person/km2) 7,400
City Features
• Makassar is the capital of South Sulawesi 
province.
• It is a central city in eastern Indonesia.
• It is at the center of rapid socio-economic 
growth, supported by excellent geotechnical 
conditions and a thriving service industry.
Vision
To create Makassar as livable world class city for all.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Health and 
Well-being
• To ensure that all citizens have easy and direct access to 
health care services, the city has planned to establish the 
inventory of health care data and integrate with all 
health system in a single platform.
o Current project is the District Health Information 
System (HIS).
o Methods for linking citizen data with financial data 
and utilizing it for preventive medicine are being 
explored.
• To increase the city’s revenues through improved tax 
collection via an integrated e-tax system. Citizen and 
business will file tax through personal mobile 
applications and one-time submission electronic 
platforms.
o Currently, the e-Tax system has been introduced to 
automate hotel and restaurant payments and value 
added tax (VAT) / hotel tax collection.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

93
Banyuwangi in Republic of Indonesia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 5,783
Population (thousand) 1,600
Density (person/km2) 277
City Features
• Banyuwangi is the administrative capital of 
Banyuwangi Regency.
• It is located in the easternmost part of Java, 
overlooking the lush green Bali Strait.
• It is the tourist city, known as the city of 
festivities as nearly 100 festivals are held 
throughout the year.
Vision
• To develop an integrated system of government through institutionalization 
of innovation and bureaucratic reform at all levels of government.
• To accelerate development through information technology and early 
warning result oriented control system.
• To build a reliable generation through guaranteed access to basic services
• and the development of vocational education oriented from regional 
potential.
• To support the economy through development of financing partnerships and 
tourism-based development.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social • Eco-tourism in locality is planned through cooperation 
with strategic partners.
Health and 
Well-being
• Various ICT-based innovations has been implemented 
for public services e.g. birth certificate issuance.
Industry and 
Innovation
• Integration of customized IT modules into education 
curriculum to bring e-commers and online trading 
knowledge to young people has been planned.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

94
DKI Jakarta in Republic of Indonesia 
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 662
Population (thousand) 10,650
Density (person/km2) 15,367
City Features
• DKI Jakarta is the capital city of Indonesia and 
a special city that constitutes the Capital 
Territory (DKI).
• It is located on the northwest coast of the 
island of Java.
• The city has been a major trade and financial 
centre and an important industrial city and a 
centre for education.
Vision
To be a city leading forward towards happy citizens.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Health and 
Well-being
• Data collection apps and connection to big data system 
to design and deliver social and health programs has 
been developed.
Build 
infrastructure
• Integration of all Jakarta transit payment systems into 
one cashless system has been in progress.
• Transjakarta bus (BRT) has a GPS sensor to track its 
location and route which provides real-time location for 
passenger to manage their travel time has been 
developed.
Industry and 
Innovation
• Job creation project which provides platforms for 
innovation sharing among research institutions and 
entrepreneurs has been planned.
• Smart card for students to access books, clothes, public 
transport, food (meat and milk) has been planned.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

95
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 237,955
Population (thousand) 7,276 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 2,589 (38%) (in 2014)
6,435 (61%) (in 2050)
Capital Vientiane
Ethnicity Lao (Majority)
Language Laotian
Religion Buddhism
Political System People democratic republic
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 19,133
GDP per capita (US$) 1 2,630 
Median Age 2 24
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 71
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 76
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 18
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 53
Governmental Direction
• The national strategy for smart cities is on process to be concretely 
incorporated in the 9th National Socio-Economic Development 5-year Plan 
(2021 to 2025).
• The smart city will be promoted by the Bureau of Economic Affairs of the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Bureau of Housing and Urban Planning of 
the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation with local governments.
Partnerships with other countries
• Japan, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism has launched 
the project in Luang Prabang (2021). The study of local issues in each 
infrastructure field to identify necessary technologies which Japanese 
companies can offer to smart city development has been conducted.
• China, Yunnan Construction, Huawei and the Laos government has co 
developed smart expressway (2021) connecting capital Vientiane with 
Vangvieng with IoT equipment capable of analyzing big data along with other 
real-time services such as emergency services, and decision analysis.
1 World Bank, GDP (current US$); World Bank, GDP per capita (current US$) *Data for 2020
2 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2019) *Data for 2020
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank, Local news 

96
Luang Prabang in Lao People’s Democratic Republic
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 857
Population (thousand) 98
Density (person/km2) 114
City Features
• Luang Prabang is the economic center of the 
northern part of Laos.
• It is located in north of Vientiane.
• The city is an ancient city that dates back to 
1300s, and its entire urban area has been 
registered as World Heritage Site. (15 April 
2021).
Vision
To be the city of tourism centre and regional connection, Luang Prabang 
envisions to be a clean, green, livable environment and smart city with the world 
heritage in the core by 2025.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• To preserve the United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) world heritage site 
by enhancing eco-tourism and through the other two 
focused areas.
Quality 
Environment
• Heritage Wetland Restoration for City Green Spaces and 
Habitats project which will develop green spaces, waste 
management system including wastewater treatment, 
storm water retention to prevent floods has been 
piloted in some areas and further study is implemented.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Upgrade of infrastructure to encourage tourism 
including footpaths, streetlight and amenities has been 
in progress in some areas.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

97
Vientiane in Lao People’s Democratic Republic
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 3,920
Population (thousand) 948
Density (person/km2) 209
City Features
• Vientiane is the capital city of Lao PDR.
• It is located on the banks of the Mekong near 
the border with Thailand.
• Population and employment opportunities 
have been concentrated at the center of 
politics, culture and economy.
Vision
Vientiane envisages the importance of environmental friendly urban 
development by declaring the development vision based on six indicators: 
peace, clean, green, light, charm and prosperity.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Health and 
Well-being
• Focus fields are such as education, public health, good 
transport, housing, public security and happiness.
Quality 
Environment
• The function of disaster prevention including fire and 
flood e.g. drainage management systems has been 
incorporated into the city Master Plans and socio-
economic development plans.
• Waste management system to ensure a clean city with 
fresh air and clean water has been planned.
Build 
infrastructure
• Infrastructure principle is to achieve a good balance 
between urban planning and good environment
• The city is seeking to collaborate with stakeholders to 
identify underlying transport issues and develop a 
strategic roadmap specifying action plans for 
sustainable transport plan.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

98
Malaysia
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 330,411
Population (thousand) 32,447 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 24,368 (75.1%) (in 2020)
36,163 (86%) (in 2050)
Capital Kuala Lumpur
Ethnicity Malay (69%)
Language Malay (national), Chinese, Tamil, English
Religion Islam (63.5%), Buddhism (18.7%), others
Political System Constitutional monarchy
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 336,911
GDP per capita (US$) 1 10,317
Median Age 2 30
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 71
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 76
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 18
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 53
Governmental Direction
• The Ministry of Housing and Local Government has developed the national smart city 
framework as a national reference for smart city development in Malaysia.
• The Smart Cities Initiatives is a part of the National Physical Plan 3 and also the National 
Urbanization Policy which recognize the expansion of digital infrastructure and broadband 
coverage and strengthening the provision of infrastructure facilities and services for smart cities 
initiatives. Smart city agenda is also emphasised in the National Physical Plan 4 and the Twelfth 
Malaysia Plan (2021-2025).
• At least 5 smart cities are to be established by 2025.
Partnerships with other countries
• Japan, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications launched the ‘Research on Smart City 
Model for Solving Social Problems in Malaysia’ project (2019) which Japanese companies are 
expected to share technologies and best practices to help tackle challenges and boost economic 
development.
• Partnerships under ASCN such as Johor Bahru-United States of America, Kota Kinabalu-Republic 
of Korea, Kuching-Japan.
• Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the field of Smart City Development between 
Malaysia and MOLIT, ROK.
• Cooperation with United Kingdom under the Global Future Cities Program to tackle transport and 
urban challenges through a smart, sustainable and integrated approach.
• China, Alibaba and Malaysian government agencies, Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation and 
Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur (2018) implemented cloud solution for traffic management in 
Kuala Lumpur.
1 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
2 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank, Japan Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Malaysia Digital Economy Blueprint, MyCensus 2020 

99
Greater Johor Bahru in Malaysia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 1,064
Population (thousand) 1,495
Density (person/km2) 1,045
City Features
• Greater Johor Bahru is located at the southern 
tip of the peninsula.
• It comprises of 3 local councils namely Johor 
Bahru City Council, Iskandar Puteri City 
Council and Pasir Gudang City Council. 
Vision
To develop Johor Bahru smart city into a strong and sustainable metropolis of 
international standing.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• To improve government transparencies in tracking 
development target, and planning approval process, the 
Central Data Centre, Iskandar Malaysia Urban 
Observatory (IMUO) has been planned to be 
implemented in 2022.
• IMUO which will collate, update, analyse, manage and 
disseminate data will function as a Knowledge Hub and 
as a Monitoring and Assessment Centre to monitor 
development progress.
Health and 
Well-being
• To improve water sustainability i.e. increasing water 
reserves and new water sources, there is plan to 
upgrade existing water plants with smart water 
management systems.
• Also, regulations for treating wastewater for sale and 
use as non-drinking-water in order to compensate for 
increasing water demand is on development process.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

100
Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 243
Population (thousand) 1,800
Density (person/km2) 7,377
City Features
• Kuala Lumpur is the capital city of Malaysia.
• It is located in a valley surrounded by hilly 
terrain in the southwestern part of Peninsular 
Malaysia.
• It has the highest population density in the
country.
• It remains the economic center of the country, 
although federal government functions have 
been transferred to Putrajaya.
Vision
Kuala Lumpur a City for All.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Quality 
Environment
• Various environmental sustainability targets have been 
set e.g. target share of green employment, green 
building, green school, green area etc.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Priority is on the comfort and safety in major physical 
improvements.
o In line with the Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plan 
2019-2028, Kuala Lumpur has started to build the 11 
km bicycle in the city centre area.
o The cloud-based intelligent transport system that 
allows commuters and operator to track the service 
status of the GOKL bus in near real time.
Industry and 
Innovation
• To modernise the industrial sector for economic growth 
and wealth creation that creates opportunities for 
innovation and knowledge economy.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

101
Kota Kinabalu in Malaysia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 366
Population (thousand) 452
Density (person/km2) 1,290
City Features
• Kota Kinabalu is the capital of the state of 
Sabah.
• It is located at the northeastern end of 
Borneo.
• It is a major tourist destination and a gateway 
for travelers visiting Sabah and Borneo while 
also one of the major industrial and 
commercial centres of East Malaysia.
Vision
Transforming Kota Kinabalu into a clean, green and livable city.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Quality 
Environment
• Integrated waste management from collection to 
processing that will reduce littering, toxic emissions from 
the landfill, and generate income for citizens and the 
government.
Built 
infrastructure
• Integrated Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), Light Rail Transit 
(LRT) and Bus Lanes to improve and enhance 
accessibility and networking for a better and systematic 
public transportation.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

102
Kuching in Malaysia
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 4,195
Population (thousand) 684
Density (person/km2) 163
City Features
• Kuching is the capital of the state of Sarawak.
• It is located in the northwestern part of 
Borneo.
Vision
To improve the quality of life and achieve smart city status through digital
transformation.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Built 
Infrastructure
• To mitigate traffic congestion in the city, the Integrated 
Smart Traffic Light System has been developed.
o 32 signalised junctions covering 4 major routes (out 
of 140 junctions) have been digitally connected and 
managed as the pilot projects.
o The government plans to expand the project to cover 
all major urban roads with better synchronised traffic 
lights with ‘real time’ traffic information.
• As a riverfront city. Kuching experienced occasional 
serious flooding problem so the government has 
implemented several flood mitigation projects including 
the Integrated Flood Management and Response 
System which monitor and alert flooding event to 
reduce the occurrence of flash floods and waterlogging 
in flood prone areas.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

103
Myanmar
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 680,000
Population (thousand) 54,410 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 18,023 (34%) (in 2014)
32,206 (55%) (in 2050)
Capital Nay Pyi Taw
Ethnicity Burmese (about 70%)
Language Burma
Religion Buddhism (90%), Christianity, Islam, etc.
Political System Presidential
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 79,852 
GDP per capita (US$) 1 1,468 
Median Age 2 29
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 94
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 86
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 21
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 76
Governmental Direction
• The Smart City initiatives is part of the ASEAN Smart Cities Network where 
Myanmar's largest cities: Nay Pyi Taw, Mandalay and Yangon, will realise the 
vision of urban development with digital technology serving as an enabler to 
resolve urbanisation issues.
• The government aims to transform the above 3 cities into a smart city
• In 2017, the government formed the Digital Economy Development 
Committee (DEDC) with the aims of developing Myanmar as a knowledge, 
digital and innovation hub.
Partnerships with other countries
• Japan International Cooperation Agency has supported several infrastructure 
and smart city project e.g. a township project in Yangon. 
• Thailand, Amarta Corp, has signed a framework agreement with the local 
government in Myanmar to jointly develop a Smart and Eco-City (2,000 acres 
for the first phase) in East Dagon township in Yangon.
1 World Bank, GDP (current US$); World Bank, GDP per capita (current US$) *Data for 2020
2 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2019) *Data for 2020
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank

104
Nay Pyi Taw in Myanmar
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 7,054
Population (thousand) 924
Density (person/km2) 131
City Features
• Nay Pyi Taw has been the capital of Myanmar 
since 2006 after relocation from Yangon.
• It is located in the central core region of 
Myanmar.
• The City serves as the Union Territory and 
administrative functions of the country.
Vision
To be a green and liveable city that is environmentally sustainable, the centre of 
knowledge hub, an aspiring climate change resilient city, an international 
aviation transit, cargo and logistics hub serving the global market.
It is also meant to set examples or role model that can be replicated in other 
cities in Myanmar.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• To provide affordable house to the citizen, the 
affordable Housing project for retired government 
officials has been started construction.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Transportation infrastructure has been planned e.g. 
Smart street lighting system, e-Bus system, air hub for 
passengers and logistics.
• Other planned infrastructure is such as ICT Park.
Industry and 
Innovation
• To be the education hub, the first International 
University in Myanmar including an Engineering School, 
Business School, Medical School, and Art and Design 
School has been planned.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

105
Mandalay in Myanmar
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 285
Population (thousand) 1,230
Density (person/km2) 4,300
City Features
• Mandalay is Myanmar's second largest city.
• It is located in the center of Myanmar on the 
east bank of the Aeyawadi River.
• It is the centre of Burmese culture and also 
the economic centre of Upper Myanmar with 
intensive trade with China following the influx 
of Chinese immigrants since 20th century. 
Vision
To be a city with safe and smooth mobility.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Safety and 
Security
• To improve road safety by;
o Installing Number Plate Reader, CCTVs and 
checkpoints.
o Installing Radio Frequency Identification tab on all 
vehicles to facilitate central control, payment, log and 
big data analysis.
o Installing Guard Rails, Road Signs, Warning Signs and 
Crossing Signs, one-way streets.
Built 
Infrastructure
• To reduce city traffic congestion by; 
o Developing a Central Control Real Time Traffic 
System/Intelligent Traffic System or Integrated Traffic 
System for efficient traffic management.
o Promoting and commencing Bus Rapid Transit. 
o Constructing user-friendly pavements in the city area.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

106
Yangon in Myanmar
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 576
Population (thousand) 5,210
Density (person/km2) 9,045
City Features
• Yangon is the first capital and the current largest 
economic center of Myanmar.
• Yangon served as the capital of Myanmar until 
2006, when the administrative functions was 
relocated to Naypyidaw.
• It is one of the most important commercial 
centre of Myanmar.
Vision
To be an attractive international port and logistics hub – A city of Blue, Green 
and Gold.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• To boost city’s attractiveness as a tourist destination, 
there is a Downtown Area Conservation project to 
improve streetscape, infrastructure and repurpose the 
vacant heritage buildings to outlets, and offices etc.
Health and 
Well-being
• To ease commuting hour of workers in industrial zone, 
the township with low-cost rental housing, with Smart 
City elements is planned.
• To maintain urban land development, the GIS database 
that includes the results of matching land and building 
information and an online geospatial information 
system has been developed.
Built 
Infrastructure
• The planned township will consist traffic management, 
environmental protection, security system and transit 
terminal.
• Various transportation are implemented e.g. smart card 
for Yangon Bus Service and piloted e.g. smart parking.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

107
The Philippines
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 299,404
Population (thousand) 109,600 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 44,531 (44%) (in 2014)
88,381 (56%) (in 2050)
Capital Manila
Ethnicity Malay (Majority)
Language National: Filipino 
Official: Filipino and English 
Religion Christian
Political System Constitutional republic
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 361,488
GDP per capita (US$) 1 3,299
Median Age 2 26
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 71
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 76
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 18
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 53
Governmental Direction
• The Smart City initiatives are recognized in the National Framework for Physical 
Planning 2001-2030. 
• The National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) is the main government 
agency responsible for national and regional planning. NEDA provides technical 
assistance to provinces while the Department of Human Settlements and Urban 
Development (DHSUD) and the Department of the Interior and Local Government 
(DILG) extend assistance in city/municipal level planning.
• The government committed to complete 6 smart city projects (no timeline 
mentioned).
Partnerships with other countries
• Filipino-Chinese consortium developed a mixed-use project (2017) designed to be a 
self-sustaining smart community where the city is run by artificial intelligence. The 
project completion is targeted in 2035.
• The Philippines Smarter & Sustainable Cities (SSC) partnered with the Council’s 
Singapore-based KC Tay and ASEAN Smart Cities Network and others (2019) launched 
a training program to help local governments plan and implement smart city projects.
1 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
2 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank, Property Guru

108
Cebu City in The Philippines
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 315
Population (thousand) 923
Density (person/km2) 2,930
City Features
• Cebu is a center of culture and trade in the 
central and southern part of the Philippines.
• Its urbanization has advanced in recent years, 
forming the second urban area in the 
Philippines, after the Metro Manila.
Vision
To improve urban growth through use of efficient technologies in realms of 
urban mobility, personal security and safety. 
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Safety and 
Security
• To upgrade the centralized monitoring and control 
system for security, safety, traffic management, and 
disaster preparedness.
Built 
Infrastructure
• To enhance traffic regulation and enforcement, and 
improve information collection and sharing, the 
Automated Citywide Traffic Control Systems project is 
initiated.
• To mitigate traffic congestion, the 1st phase of 
Integrated Intermodal Transport System including 
monorails, two-point buses, LRTs and BRTs has been 
implemented.
o Currently, the first phase BRT connecting South Road 
Properties to Cebu IT Park and other city highways 
has been operated.
o The extension is planned in 2025.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

109
Davao City in The Philippines
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 2,444
Population (thousand) 1,700
Density (person/km2) 699
City Features
• Davao is the largest city in terms of land area 
and the third-most populous city in the 
Philippines.
• It is located in southeastern Mindanao, on the 
northwestern shore of Davao Gulf.
• The city serves as the main trade, commerce, 
and industry hub of Mindanao, and the 
regional center of Davao Region.
Vision
To create a community that harnesses digital connectivity and technological
advancement in providing high-quality living and a safe and secured 
environment for the Dabawenyos.
Taking advantage of modern information technology systems, the city aims to
strengthen its safety and security measures, enhance public service delivery, and 
bolster domestic and international linkages and relations to drive economic 
growth and achieve sustainable development.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Safety and 
Security
• To improve public safety and planning, the Public Safety 
and Security Command Center has been established to 
undertake all tasks related to safety and security e.g. to 
gather and alert on the near-time critical information.
o The city plans to increase CCTVs to cover all 
intersections and key facilities by 2021.
Built 
Infrastructure
• To address traffic congestion, the High Priority Bus 
System has been pilot in the southern part of Davao City 
since 2018.
• The intelligent traffic control system is on development 
process.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

110
Manila in The Philippines
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 39
Population (thousand) 1,780
Density (person/km2) 46,173
City Features
• Manila is the capital city of the Philippines, a 
fast-growing political, economic, cultural, 
communicative, information and power 
center.
• It is located to the west of Luzon, in the 
northern part of the country.
Vision
Governance at the palm of your hands.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Health and 
Well-being
• To integrate Medical Records, Medical 
Assistance/Monitoring and Patient Management System 
which allows;
o Operating room supervision.
o Integration with i-Hospital system for medical 
student training.
o Consultations and joint operation by experts abroad 
or in other hospitals.
Safety and 
Security
• To improve the city’s Command Centre to a cloud-based 
system and link transport, security, order and disaster 
monitoring systems to a command, control and monitor 
and response centers.
Industry and 
Innovation
• To develop mobile tutorial applications, based on 
Department of Education’s curriculum which allows 
students to practice study or review lessons online.
• Construction of Internet-ready classrooms provided with 
computer/tablets.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

111
Republic of Singapore
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 728.3 (in 2020)
Population (thousand) 5,453.6 (in 2021)
Urban Population (thousand) 5,453.6 (100% of Singaporeans live in urban 
areas)
Capital Singapore
Ethnicity 74.2% Chinese, 13.7% Malays, 8.9% Indians, 
3.2% Others (in 2021)
Language Malay (National language)
English, Chinese, Tamil (Official language)
Religion Buddhism, Taoism, Christianity, Islam, 
Hinduism, Others
Political System Parliamentary Republic
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 339,925
GDP per capita (US$) 1 59,785
Median Age 2 44
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 100
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 97
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 82
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 146
Governmental Direction
• Smart City initiatives are administered by the Smart Nation and Digital 
Government Group (SNDGG) together with infrastructural agencies such as 
the Ministry of National Development. 
• In 2015, Singapore announced its Smart City Masterplan for 2016-2025.
• Smart Nation efforts are organised along four pillars: Digital Government, 
Digital Economy, Digital Society and Smart Cities. In 2018, the government 
developed three broad plans to facilitate the transformation of Singapore. 
This included the Digital Economy Framework for Action, Digital Government 
Blueprint and the Digital Readiness Blueprint.
Partnerships with other countries
• Singapore substantially concluded negotiations on its digital economy 
agreement (DEA) with the United Kingdom (UK) in 2021. The UK-Singapore 
DEA (UKSDEA) includes binding disciplines on the cornerstones of the digital 
economy, such as data, as well as cooperative elements in a wide range of 
emerging and innovative areas such as Artificial Intelligence, fintech, digital 
identities and legal technology. The UKSDEA is the third DEA of its kind with 
foreign counterparts.
1 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
2 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Sources: Smart Nation Digital Government Office Singapore, Ministry of Trade and 
Industry Singapore, Prime Minister’s Office Singapore, Department of Statistics Singapore

112
Republic of Singapore
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 728.3 (in 2020)
Population (thousand) 5,453.6 (in 2021)
Density (person/km2) 7,485 (in 2021)
City Features
• Singapore is the largest industrial and 
financial center in Southeast Asia.
• It is an island state located at the southern tip 
of Malaysia, consisting of the main island and 
64 offshore islands.
• The main island has been expanded by land 
reclamation and is highly urbanized.
Vision
A Singapore where people are more empowered to live meaningful and fulfilled 
lives, enabled seamlessly by technology, offering exciting opportunities for all.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• The development of a National Digital Identity 
Ecosystem was launched to provide users with a single 
digital identity to transact with government and private 
sector organisations more effectively.
Industry and 
Innovation
• Singapore launched the National Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Strategy to outline plans to deepen the use of AI 
technologies to transform the economy and 
fundamentally rethink business models, making deep 
changes to reap productivity gains.
• Singapore also addressed the severe socio-economic 
consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic by providing 
individuals and businesses through SupportGoWhere 
and Covid GoBusiness Portal.
Health and 
Well-being
• Singapore augmented its Covid-19 response swiftly by 
enhancing the speed and accuracy of contact tracing 
with digital solutions like TraceTogether and SafeEntry. 
Source: Smart Nation Digital Government Office Singapore, Department of Statistics Singapore
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

113
Thailand
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 514,000
Population (thousand) 69,800 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 33,056 (49%) (in 2014)
45,335 (72%) (in 2050)
Capital Bangkok
Ethnicity Thai (Majority)
Language Thai 
Religion Buddhism 94%, Islam 5%
Political System Constitutional monarchy
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 501,513
GDP per capita (US$) 1 7,185
Median Age 2 40
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 84
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 93
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 39
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 125
Governmental Direction
• The National Smart City Commission was formed under the "Prime Minister's
Office Ordinance No. 267/2560 on the establishment of the National Smart
City Commission" in October 2017. The committee is administered by the
Digital Economy Promotion Agency, a public organization under the Ministry
of Digital Economy and Society of Thailand.
• The Smart City Basic Plan was issued in January 2018 with established target,
standard, specific benefits and measures for smart city development.
Partnerships with other countries
• Cooperation with neighboring countries through the Thailand International
Cooperation Agency (TICA) for connectivity in hardware and software, and
promotion of sustainable development based on UN principles.
• China has cooperated in several infrastructure projects e.g. the construction of
a high-speed railway linking central and northeastern of Thailand.
1 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
2 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank

114
Bangkok in Thailand
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 1,568
Population (thousand) 8,280
Density (person/km2) 5,300
City Features
• The capital city of Thailand.
• It is located in the central part of Thailand.
• The city serves as Thailand's administrative, 
economic, cultural and educational center, 
and a major commercial and transportation 
hub for Southeast Asia.
Vision
To be a Visitor-Friendly International Community with a New Central District 
filled with various attractions and infrastructures.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Quality 
Environment
• Pahonyothin aims to be the ideal place for visitors with 
its strong international community and the New Central 
District full of attractions and consist of various 
transport systems such as pedestrianization, cycling, bus 
and metro.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Bang Sue as the main stop for the High-Speed Rail and 
the hub of the new Commuter Rail System that provides 
new lines serving the areas near the city center which 
aims to reduce congestion at the existing terminal while 
simultaneously reducing commuting time.
Industry and 
Innovation
• There is the study on innovation district in several areas 
and industries e.g. Rattanakosin District (Center for 
Creative Economy), Yodhi District (Center for Medicine 
and Research), Kluay Nam Thai District (Center for E-
Commerce, Multimedia, and Digital Business).
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT repots, The Bangkok Metropolitan Council
Note: The Office of the Royal Society (ORST) has recently (specifically on February 16, 2022) announced the change of the official name of Thailand’s capital, from Bangkok to "Krung Thep Maha Nakhon."
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

115
Chonburi in Thailand
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 43
Population (thousand) 215
Density (person/km2) 5,000
City Features
• Chonburi is located along the Gulf of Thailand 
about 60 km southeast of Bangkok.
• Chonburi is one of the three provinces of the 
Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), an area-based 
development initiative with new S-curve 
industries such as comprehensive medical 
industry, digital technology, biofuel and 
biochemical, aviation and logistics, and robotics.
• The popular resort town is Pattaya Beach.
Vision
To be a self-reliant, energy-efficient city with renewable energy sources and 
sustainable environmental management.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Health and 
Well-being
• The Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), a special economic 
zone provides a budget to create job and improve labor 
skill e.g. training courses for tour guides and hotel staff 
during Covid-19.
Quality 
Environment
• Waste power plant project which converts industrial 
waste to renewable energy by waste treatment and 
management system.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Smart grid project aims for an energy self-reliant city 
with renewable energy sources.
o It entails the management of electrical networks, 
generation, transmission and power distribution 
systems.
Industry and 
Innovation
• The EEC provides facility to support both domestic and 
foreign investments in 10 targeted advanced industries 
(e.g. robotic, biological, medical tourism, digital.)
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT repots, Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) Office
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

116
Phuket in Thailand
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 543
Population (thousand) 400
Density (person/km2) 719
City Features
• Phuket is Thailand's largest island and one of 
the world's leading resort town, located in the 
Andaman Sea.
• The Sino-Portuguese architecture, shrines, 
and food that represent the city's rich cultural 
history that can be observed throughout the 
city, particularly in the Old Town Area, reflect 
Phuket's multicultural mix.
Vision
With tourism accounting for 97% of its Gross Domestic Product, Phuket’s smart 
city vision is to achieve sustainability in its tourism development, to become a 
sandbox for value-based tourism industry and development post Covid-19.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social
• Phuket plans to build a City Data Platform that allows 
for better understanding of residents and tourists to 
prepare utility that cater the residents and tourists’ 
demand.
Safety and 
Security
• To provide security for the resident and tourist, CCTVs 
has been in used for criminal prevention e.g. face 
recognition and a license plate scan features since 2017.
o It aims to maximize the coverage area by inviting 
private firms to share their CCTV data with the 
government.
Industry and 
Innovation
• The City Data Platform also functions to build big data 
that can aid more efficient and accurate planning of 
infrastructure, public utilities, common amenities etc. 
• The data will also provide valuable insights to businesses 
and start-ups in their analysis.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network and MLIT repots
Phnom Penh
Mandalay

117
Viet Nam
City Profile Overview (National level)
Country Basic Information
Key Market Index
Smart City Plan & Activity (National level) 
Land Area (km2) 331,212
Population (thousand) 97,340 (in 2020)
Urban Population (thousand) 30,495 (33%) (in 2014)
55,739 (54%) (in 2050)
Capital Hanoi
Ethnicity Kinh 86%
Language Vietnamese
Religion Buddhism, Catholicism, Caodaism etc.
Political System Socialist republic
GDP (Millions of US$) 1 271,193
GDP per capita (US$) 1 2,786
Median Age 2 33
% Improved Sanitation Facilities 3* 78
% Improved Drinking Water Source 3* 81
Internet Subscribers per 100 persons 3 53
Cellular Phone Users per 100 persons 3 131
Governmental Direction
• In 2018, the strategy for sustainable smart city development in the 2018 –
2025 period, with a vision to 2030 was issued.
• Under the plan, by 2025, Viet Nam would have at least six metropolises 
representing six major economic zones. In five years' time, Viet Nam is set to 
form a network of smart cities nationwide.
• By 2022, the Ministry of Construction has scheduled to submit a draft law on 
urban management and development to the National Assembly, and finalize 
related national standards and criteria.
Partnerships with other countries
• Many Japanese companies formed a joint venture, consortium to develop
smart city e.g. Sumitomo Corporation with Vietnamese developer BRG Group,
a consortium of Sumitomo Corporation with NTT Communications
Corporation, NEC Corporation and other 3 companies.
1 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
2 Euromonitor (Data for 2020)
3 ASEAN Secretariat, “ASEAN Statistical Report on Millennium Development Goals”, 2017. * Data as of 2015
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports, World Bank, Sumitomo Corporation’s website, Hanoi Times

118
Da Nang in Viet Nam
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 1,285
Population (thousand) 1,000
Density (person/km2) 814
City Features
• Da Nang is the largest city in central Viet 
Nam.
• It is located about 750 km south of Hanoi and 
about 960 km north of Ho Chi Minh City at 
the end of the East-West Economic Corridor 
that runs through Laos, Thailand, and 
Myanmar.
• It is a port city and large-scale development is 
underway along the coast.
Vision
To be a smart, livable, and sustainable city by 2030. With a citizen-centric 
strategy, Da Nang aims to deliver high quality of life and sustainable 
environment for citizens while ensuring economic growth and competitiveness.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social • Da Nang e-government platform has been prepared.
Health and 
Well-being
• The IT facility for school and medical facility has been 
planned.
Safety and 
Security
• The security and emergency service and disaster 
prevention has been planned to implement through 
Intelligent Traffic Control System and data center.
Quality 
Environment
• The smart water management including water quality 
monitoring has been developed.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Da Nang Data Center has been prepared and will be 
utilized for various services e.g. e-government.
• The Intelligent Transportation System is planned.
Industry and 
Innovation
• Smart economy including tourism, agriculture and 
commerce and smart citizen is mentioned but no 
concrete plan yet.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

119
Hanoi in Viet Nam
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 3,359
Population (thousand) 7,600
Density (person/km2) 2,280
City Features
• Hanoi is the capital city of Viet Nam. It is the 
center of politics and culture.
• It is located in the northern Viet Nam, on the 
right bank of the Hong River.
• To cope with rapid urbanization, multiple 
urban railways were planned and are now 
under construction.
Vision
To be a green, culturally-rich, civil and modern city with sustainable 
development to create a better life for the people by 2030. As the national 
political center, Hanoi places its economic, trade, investment, culture and social 
priorities at heart.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Civil and Social • Smart travel including tourism data integration 
infrastructure, Hanoi Tourist Portal and mobile app.
Health and 
Well-being
• The Intelligent Operations Centre (IOC) is planned to 
provide for reception and processing of emergency 
information, fire, search and rescue and medical 
treatment etc.
Safety and 
Security
• The IOC is planned to have the function for supervision 
of confidentiality and safety of information and crime 
control and prevention.
Built 
Infrastructure
• Intelligent Transport Systems is planned to have the 
function for traffic management including traffic signal, 
electronic traffic signage system, traffic monitoring and 
management software system etc.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT reports
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

120
Ho Chi Minh City in Viet Nam
City Profile Overview (City level)
City Basic Information
Smart City Action Plan
Land Area (km2) 2,096
Population (thousand) 8,200
Density (person/km2) 3,924
City Features
• Ho Chi Minh is prospered as the economic 
center of Viet Nam, accounting for about half 
of the country's GDP and leading the 
economy.
• It is located in southern Viet Nam.
• In accordance with the progress of 
urbanization, multiple subway lines were 
planned and are now under construction.
Vision
Ho Chi Minh City’s vision by 2025 is to attain rapid and sustainable economic 
development through optimal resource utilization and citizen-centric 
governance.
Focus Areas
Civil and 
Social
Health and 
Well-being
Safety and 
Security
Quality 
Environment
Built 
Infrastructure
Industry and 
Innovation
★ ★ ★ ★
Focus Area Detail & Project Sample
Health and 
Well-being
The following projects are mentioned:
• Smart public lighting management.
• Solutions of food product traceability.
• Online public service.
Safety and 
Security
• An integrated and unified emergency response center 
for security and public order issues, fire-fighting and 
disaster prevention has been developed.
Quality 
Environment • The environment quality monitoring network.
Built 
Infrastructure
• The Smart Traffic Control Center has started operation 
as part of the Intelligent transportation system, traffic 
forecast model and traffic management.
Source: ASEAN Smart Cities Network, MLIT repots, VN Express
Mandalay
Phnom Penh

121
The following are the list of acronyms used within the guidebook.
List of Acronyms
Application Programming Interface API
Area Energy Management System AEMS
Artificial Intelligence AI
ASEAN Secretariat ASEC
ASEAN Smart Cities Network ASCN
ASEAN Sustainable Urbanisation Strategy ASUS
Association Of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN
Automated Teller Machine ATM
Automatic Number Plate Recognition ANPR
Bus Rapid Transit BRT
Business Improvement District BID
Citizen Relations Management / Cepat Respon Masyarakat CRM
City Operating System City OS
Closed-circuit Television CCTV
Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR
Corona Virus Disease Covid-19
Davao City Disaster Risk Reduction And Management Council DCDRRMC
Davao City Police Office DCPO
Digital Economy Agreement DEA
Digital Economy Development Committee DEDC
Digital Economy Promotion Agency DEPA
Digital Transformation DX
Eastern Economic Corridor EEC
Electronic Vehicles EV
Geographic Information System GIS
Global Positioning System GPS
Gross Domestic Product GDP
Home Energy Management System HEMS
Human Resources HR
Identification ID
Information And Communications Technology ICT
Information Technology IT
Intelligent Operation Center IOC
Iskandar Malaysia Urban Observatory IMUO
Japan Association for Smart Cities in ASEAN JASCA
Japan External Trade Organization JETRO
Key Performance Indicators KPIs
Light Rail Transit LRT
Ministry Of Internal Affairs And Communications MIC
Ministry Of Land, Infrastructure, Transport And Tourism MLIT
Office of the Royal Society ORST
Pay For Success PFS
Proof Of Business PoB
Proof Of Concept PoC
Public Private Partnership PPP
Public Safety And Security Command Center PSSCC
Quick Response Code QR Code
Reduction, Reuse and Recycle 3R
Smart City Supported By Japan ASEAN Mutual Partnership Smart JAMP
Smart Nation And Digital Government Group SNDGG
Smarter & Sustainable Cities SSC
Social Impact Bond SIB
Task Force Davao TFD
Traffic Management Center TMC
UK-Singapore DEA UKSDEA
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization UNESCO
Value Added Tax VAT
Yangon City Development Committee YCDC

Prepared by: In Consultation with:
