106.
EXTRA CONTRIBUTION
1. Introduction
In recent years, the term “smart city” is heard being used 
in diff erent ways. Many federal and local governments can 
often be heard proclaiming the need to expedite the econ-
omy “through smart cities.” Also witnessable are private 
enterprises’ advertising their new plans to boost growth 
with the keyword “smart city.” It is undeniable the term 
has gained signifi cant traction in the global socioeconomic 
lexicon. Events including everything from an international 
exhibition to a local college’s hackathon use “smart city” as 
the key branding strategy. But what exactly is a “smart city?” 
A smart city is commonly understood as an urban envi-
ronment that makes use of technology and innovation to 
enhance its capacity, managerial effi ciency, and resource 
utilization. In contrast to a “traditional city,” which operates 
based primarily upon the existing physical infrastructure 
and laborious non-digital processes, a smart city makes 
use of data to drive automation, enhancing the livelihood 
of the residents. As a result, a smart city helps to decrease 
the unnecessary spending of its residents, emphasizing good 
design and participation from all sectors in society. Th e key 
urban development concept is to make the city more resil-
ient, with the development goal of sustainably improving 
the quality of life (QoL).
As a global trend, cities around the globe are in high 
demand due to the shifting of the global economic mode 
from producing goods to providing services. While many 
would agree that cities are hotbeds of innovation, it is unde-
niable that cities also create trash, pollution, and consume 
an insurmountable amount of energy. Once and for all, this 
article aims to outline the concept of a smart city based 
on the research and development of the Digital Economy 
Promotion Agency of Th ailand (known internationally as 
“depa”) and the Smart City Th ailand Offi ce. Th is article, it 
is hoped, will serve as a springboard for everyone, not only 
for those who are interested in better understanding such an 
important and popular concept, but also for those who may 
want to “join forces” in positively shaping and re-shaping 
the world in which people live. 
2. Three Concepts
First and foremost, it is important to agree on one thing 
— that a “smart city” is a process, and not a result. Th e idea 
is that no city reaches the status of a smart city by simply 
ticking all the boxes. As with humans, “smart” refers to the 
ability to comprehend a situation in a meaningful way, such 
as in adapting and transforming, to cope with and improve 
the changing world. Th e idea of a smart city “as a pro-
cess,” therefore, entails a set of milestones and conceptual 
Nuttapon Nimmanphatcharin, Ph.D.
Passakon Prathombutr, Ph.D.
Supakorn Siddhichai, Ph.D.
Non A, Ph.D.
Wichai Treethidtaphat
Based on strategies such as Thailand 4.0 started in 2017, Thailand is now accelerat-
ing digitalization in various fields. This extra contribution from the Digital Economy 
Promotion Agency of Thailand (depa) introduces what a smart city is and Thailand’s 
initiatives to achieve it.
Smart City Initiatives in Thailand: 
Key Concepts and Methods

Hitachi Review Vol. 70, No. 1 106–107 107.
framework pertaining to systematic, consistent, and proxi-
mal development. 
By this defi nition, all cities are already “smart” in some 
ways since the idea of “smart” is part and parcel of the 
ability to survive in a changing world. Cities, however, can 
always improve to which the understanding of the idea of 
smart city “as a process” is crucial. Boiling down to a magic 
number of three, here are the three basic concepts encom-
passing the smart city:
(1) Citizens at the center, technology in the background;
(2) People-public-private-partnership (PPPP); and,
(3) Simultaneous development 
Cities are for people. If not for people, then there is no 
need for cities to exist at all. So, contrary to some popular 
perceptions that cities are all about technology, the belief 
is that it is about the needs of the residents. A “smart city” 
is one where its residents get access to abundant livelihood, 
employment, lifelong learning, and entertainment — as in 
the LLWP or “Live-Learn-Work-Play” concept. 
So, by placing citizens at the center, it might not always 
be the case that cities need the most cutting-edge technol-
ogy. What cities need, instead, may be as technological as 
appropriate. A smart city should not be an urban environ-
ment whereby residents confront the dilemma of technol-
ogy daily. For example, cities that require residents to be 
hooked on their smartphones 12+ hours a day in order to 
be “smart” cannot be good for the health and wellbeing of 
the residents. 
On the other hand, smart cities are those that use the 
appropriate technologies to enhance the quality of life in 
the background, such as automated traffi c, energy effi ciency, 
and integrated healthcare systems. Residents may not feel 
that “something” is working for them and on their behalf, 
which is fi ne as long as their level of wellbeing and liveli-
hood is increasing. In this sense, the evidence of success 
lies in the measurable indicators such as less travel time, 
worry-free access to healthcare, and more spare time. 
To expedite the process, it is important to synergize the 
“superpower” of the people, public, and private sectors in 
the fashion of “People-Public-Private-Partnership” (PPPP). 
Th e commonly used term is just PPP , but the “P for the 
People” is included in the equation, as many recent instances 
of the successes, and especially the failures, of smart city 
projects worldwide have demonstrated the crucial need to 
communicate with the people, therefore galvanizing their 
support in the process (see 
Figure 1). 
Finally, as tempting as it may be to think of a smart city 
in terms of a series of “data-driven digital platforms,” cities 
still consist of connected physical spaces. So, the simulta-
neous development of both the physical and digital infra-
structures is required so that the demands and supplies of 
physical goods can travel to meet one another after the 
price and the service have been agreed upon on the digital 
platforms. 
In the context of Th ailand, the government realizes the 
importance of improving cities as places for productive 
residents. It, hence, places a great emphasis upon the distri-
bution of growth in all regions of the country, as evident in 
the Twenty-Year National Strategy, the 12th Economic and 
Social Development Plan, Th ailand 4.0 Driving Model and 
the Digital Th ailand for Economy and Society Development 
Plan. Building smart cities is Th ailand’s urgent national 
agenda with the goals of lessening inequality and boosting 
growth in all regions. 
With the “people fi rst” mindset, a smart city is a liv-
able urban environment, eff ective in its organization and 
management. Each city will choose the type of smart city it 
aspires to become, whether that be a modern city, a livable 
city, or a city with a traditional sense of identity and culture, 
all with the basic infrastructure that provides citizens with 
the sense of convenience in transportation, water, and elec-
tricity systems — as well as digital technology. All of these 
eff orts will lead to a transition to 100 smart cities that foster 
well-being, livelihood, and sustainability by the year 2022.
Figure 1 — Identifying Citizen’s Needs 
for Smart Cities
“Because citizens are at the center”; there-
fore most crucial to the People-Public-
Private-Partnership (PPPP) process is 
always defining the needs of the citizens 
“from their own perspectives. ” This photo-
graph shows how tools such as design think-
ing and business model canvas are used to 
identify the needs of citizens. 

108.
3. Smart City “Two-Five-Seven” 
Currently housed at depa, the Smart City Th ailand Offi ce 
has been set up to oversee the operation and progress of 
smart cities in Th ailand. Under the guidance of the National 
Steering Committee on Smart City currently chaired by a 
Deputy Prime Minister, the Offi ce bundles various forms 
of incentives for interested cities, such as tax benefi ts from 
the Board of Investment (BOI) of Th ailand and non-tax 
benefi ts such as the Smart Visa for a skilled foreign work-
force, technological sandbox for new technologies, and 
incubation and accelerator programs for both cities and 
solution providers. 
A city with smart city aspirations, therefore, would 
propose to the Smart City Th ailand Offi ce to engage in 
the smart city program with the ultimate goals of being 
endorsed by the National Steering Committee on Smart 
City. To get there, these cities will be lively and dynamically 
incubated by depa and partners through various programs 
and measures. Currently (October 2020), there are propos-
als from 40 cities who are offi cially in “depa Smart City 
Promotional Areas.” 
As the “depa Smart City Promotional Areas” process 
goes, it sets up a mnemonic device “Two-Five-Seven” to 
help people remember key information about the process. 
Th e next section starts with the fi rst number, “Two.”
4. Two Types of Smart Cities — Smart 
Livable and Smart New Cities 
Smart city candidates are fi rst asked to determine which 
type of smart city they aspire to become. Determining 
which type is a result of both the citizen-centric under-
standing of the city and the evaluation of its potential in 
development, whether that be socioeconomic, educational, 
or industrial. To be developed into a “Smart Livable City,” 
the existing city needs to incorporate and integrate the 
technologies and innovations, as needed by its residents, 
that vary by the city’s specifi c contexts, such as infrastructure, 
social services, housing, recreational areas, and commercial 
resources, including the design of urban spaces contributing 
to the rich existing culture, tradition, and identity of the 
city as a whole. 
While a Smart Livable City makes use of technology 
and innovation as needed by its specifi c contexts, a “New 
Smart City” focuses on development based on land (e.g., 
greenfi eld or brownfi eld), labor, and ample opportunity for 
new development in line with certain national policies, such 
as in the case of the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) of 
Th ailand (see Figure 2). 
5. Five Criteria for Smart 
City Development 
Based on the extensive research and development of the 
Smart City Th ailand Offi ce, there are fi ve criteria for mea-
suring the potential of a city’s proposed smart city program:
(1) Identifying geographical boundaries, Smart City type, 
Smart City visions and goals. Th is process requires the deep 
and active participation of the residents to ensure that the 
visions and goals fi t well with the needs of the city and sit 
well with the core competency of the city in a long term;
(2) Formulating an infrastructural development and invest-
ment plan for both digital and basic infrastructure such as 
transportation, energy, and public services;
(3) Designing a data storage and management platform 
(also commonly known as City Data Platform or CDP) 
as well as cybersecurity for the city and its residents. 
Synergizing with the physical infrastructure, the design of 
the digital infrastructure fosters the use of big data analytics 
in the operation of IT services in the city (see Figure 3);
(4) Building urban systems, activities, and projects per the 
proposed type of Smart City, encompassing both the man-
datory and other services as appropriate; and, 
(5) Creating a management model and process of public 
participation incubation for a sustainable operation.
Often, cities are encouraged to use tools from both the 
Design Th inking and Business Model Canvas (BMC) 
schools of thought that are widely used among creative 
entrepreneurs. Th ese tools are useful as they facilitate not 
only productive communication among the stakeholders, 
but also provide a layout of the overall process of smart city 
development and promotion.
Figure 2 — Smart Livable City and Smart New City
Illustrations comparing dominant characteristics of the 
Smart Livable City to those of the Smart New City.

Hitachi Review Vol. 70, No. 1 108–109
EXTRA CONTRIBUTION
109.
6. Seven Smarts 
As a process, the smart city is characterized by seven domains, 
which serve both to guide operation and to benchmark suc-
cess (see Figure 4). Also based on extensive research, these 
seven domains of smart city are seen to encompass all value, 
virtue, and viability of a smart city program. 
(1) Smart Environment: As the must-have and most 
important domain of a smart city, the guiding question is 
how to improve the ecological quality of a sustainable urban 
environment. Th e goal is to minimize the negative impact 
of urban living on the environment and climate change 
through the systematic use of technology, such as, in water 
resource management, climate monitoring, waste manage-
ment, and disaster watch, including public participation in 
the conservation of natural resources.
(2) Smart Economy: How can technology be used to help 
improve the economy and manage available resources more 
effi ciently? Th e goal is to make full use of digital technology 
to eff ectively increase value-addedness in the economic sys-
tem as well as resource management, such as a smart agro-
city and a smart tourism city.
(3) Smart Mobility: How can technology be used to solve 
traffi c problems in the city so people can travel conveniently, 
effi ciently, sustainably, and safely? Th is domain places an 
emphasis on the development of traffi c and transportation 
systems in driving the country forward. By enhancing the 
connectedness of a variety of traffi c and transportation sys-
tems, urban residents benefi t from enhanced convenience 
and safety, and by becoming friendlier to the environment.
(4) Smart Energy: How can conserving the use of non-
renewable energy be balanced with producing alternative 
sources of clean energy? Th is domain spearheads eff ective 
energy management and the building of a fi ne balance 
between the production and usage of energy to enhance 
energy security and decrease reliance on the traditional 
channels of energy distribution.
(5) Smart People: How can the skills of people in the 
city be developed to boost creativity and create more jobs? 
Th e goal is to improve the knowledge base, skill sets, and 
!
CDP Ecosystem
Laws, 
standards, 
and
frameworks
Manpower
development
(skill)
Data exchange
IoTs
Digital 
Infrastructures
Digital city 
accelerator 
platforms
Devices Internet Data center
Data catalog Data governance
Security
PaaS
IaaS Compute
service
Message 
queue Blockchain Integrations API 
management
Analytics / AI 
/ ML
Event
processing
Applications
Open data
for Citizen and Business
IOC API marketplaceSmart solutions Business 
intelligence
Storage
service
Network
service
Server
Figure 3 — CDP Diagram
The City Data Platform, commonly 
known as “CDP” or in diff erent con-
texts as Urban Data Platform or Data 
Analytic Platform, is a system that 
integrates the large amount of data 
in cities to give a holistic view of a 
city’s condition so that the services 
to meet the needs of the citizens 
can be provided in a timely man-
ner – ideally in real time. Collecting 
data from demand-side, supply-
side, and analytical and standard-
ization streams, CDP is one of the 
five criteria for Thailand’s smart city 
development. 
Figure 4 — Seven Domains Logo 
This figure shows the design of the logos of the 
seven domains of Smart City Thailand.
CDP: city data platform IOC: intelligent operation center API: application programming interface PaaS: platform as a service 
IaaS: infrastructure as a service AI: artificial intelligence ML: machine learning IoT: Internet of Things

110.
environment that are conducive to the life-long learning of 
urban residents to decrease social and economic inequality 
and provide new opportunities for creativity, innovation, 
and public participation.
(6) Smart Living: How can innovation be used and the 
QoL of people in the city be improved to make them safe 
and happy? Hence, the goal is to maximize health, safety, 
and the QoL of urban residents through universal design.
(7) Smart Governance: How can a digital system be 
designed where people can benefi t from big data, improving 
public service in the city? Th e goal is to develop the system 
of public services to benefi t the residents whose access to 
data and trust in the accountability of such a system are 
key to their livelihood and wellbeing. Th e system shall be 
consistently improved through applied service innovation.
7. Conclusions
Th is article serves both to provide the ground for the 
understanding of Th ailand’s smart city eff ort and an open 
invitation to join forces to foster positive socio-environ-
mental change. Th e hope is that this paper has highlighted 
the importance of the concept of a smart city as the “key 
umbrella” both in promoting the innovation industry and 
in supporting the rapidly changing society. In this context, 
depa serves as “the hub” in the development of both digital 
manpower and technology, including standards, regulations, 
and guidelines in materializing smart cities. 
To close, it is useful to be reminded that smart cities 
are citizen-centric. Contrary to some popular perceptions, 
smart cities do not always have to be ultra-high-tech. 
Instead, smart cities prefer “practical technology” that fos-
ters people’s wellbeing and livelihood (see Figure 5). 
Th e key to a successful building of smart cities, therefore, 
is the understanding of the demands and needs of residents 
“from within.” As the hub, depa connects the central and 
local governments, private sectors including startups, aca-
demic and research institutions, and external partners in 
both the ASEAN region and beyond. 
Figure 5 — Process of Understanding 
“Smart City Two-Five-Seven”
In the end, a smart city is where everyone 
who is involved in the process is happy with 
the process as well as the result. This pho-
tograph represents the process of under-
standing the “Smart City Two-Five-Seven” 
with the citizens by engaging and empow-
ering them to create the future of the cities 
in which they themselves would like to live.
Authors
Nuttapon Nimmanphatcharin, Ph.D.
President and CEO of the Digital Economy Promotion 
Agency of Thailand (depa)
Passakon Prathombutr, Ph.D. 
Senior Executive Vice President and CTO of depa
Supakorn Siddhichai, Ph.D.
Executive Vice President of depa
Non A, Ph.D.
Senior Expert in Digital Economy Promotion in the 
Smart City Promotion Department of depa
Wichai Treethidtaphat
Team Leader in the Digital Platform and Service 
Promotion Department of depa
