Smart City Handbook: 
Thailand

This Handbook was commissioned by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO), as a complimentary research to the Prosperity 
Fund’s Global Future Cities Programme (GFCP). The Prosperity Fund is a major UK 
government initiative announced in 2015. It contributes significantly to the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and implementation of the New 
Urban Agenda. It is guided by the UK Aid Strategy objective of helping promote 
growth and prosperity in developing middle-income countries. The countries in which 
the Prosperity Fund operates offer great opportunities for creation of mutually 
beneficial partnerships, and for the growth of businesses and trade relationships. 
Background
The Global Future Cities Programme is a three year 
official development assistance programme. 
The programme will support inclusive and 
sustainable urban economic growth and increase 
global prosperity through targeted interventions on 
transportation, urban planning and urban resilience in 
ten countries worldwide (Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia, 
Myanmar, Nigeria, Philippines, South Africa, Thailand, 
Turkey and Vietnam). 
GFCP in Thailand is being implemented in partnership 
with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA). 
The activities will support existing objectives and 
projects in the city, while building the capacity of 
BMA teams and establishing models which can be 
replicated and up-scaled. Ongoing activities include:
Integrated Data Centre - Roadmap
Designing, and developing a road map for 
implementation, of a world-class data centre shaped 
to the specific requirements of Bangkok. The BMA 
data centre will inform and enable integrated, 
THE UK PROSPERITY FUND & GLOBAL FUTURE CITIES PROGRAMME 
sustainable, future-focused and responsive city 
planning & management.
Decision Support System for Flood Management
Optimising the impact of the BMA’s flood 
management strategy and related infrastructure 
investments, by supporting introduction of an 
effective and responsive decision-support system 
(DSS) and building the capacity of relevant teams to 
ensure that the DSS is effectively operationalised. 
Transit–Oriented Development Plan (TODP) : 
Khlong Bang Luang and Bang Wa BTS station
Assisting BMA in the preparation of a TODP for 
Khlong Bang Luang and Bang Wa BTS station, which 
has been identified as a priority development area 
by BMA and other stakeholders. This TOD will help 
demonstrate how the government’s investment in 
enhanced transport access and connectivity, can 
drive inclusive economic planning and sustainable 
development. 

Foreword
Cities are growing at an unprecedented pace. More than half of the world population 
already lives in urban areas. The proportion is forecast to increase to 66% in 
2050. Within Asia alone, this is equivalent of adding an entire new city of 3 million 
people, more than half the size of Singapore, every month for the next 30 years. 
Unless cities are well planned and managed, urbanisation exacerbates poverty, 
overcrowding, congestion, pollution. Public services quickly become inadequate 
and inaccessible. With two thirds of the world’s population due to live in cities by 
2050, the UK Government believes resolving the challenges of our cities is critical 
to resolving the issues of our future including climate change, health, resource 
depletion, poverty and waste. 
UK cities have been working for decades to tackle these new urban issues. While the 
journey is ongoing, we are keen to share our experiences and to learn from other 
countries. In Thailand, we are working in partnership with Bangkok Metropolitan 
Administration (BMA), under our Prosperity Fund’s Global Future Cities Programme, 
to support projects on establishing the city’s integrated data hub, using data to 
inform flood management policy and on Transit-Oriented Development Plan (TODP). 
Urbanisation creates many challenges, but it also presents opportunities to improve 
people’s lives. In addition to the work already underway in our Global Future Cities 
Programme, I believe there are other areas where we can work with Thailand. I hope 
this handbook will raise awareness of these opportunities and start conversations 
that lead to more collaboration between our two countries. 
Brian Davidson
HM Ambassador to Thailand
Brian Davidson
HM Ambassador to Thailand
In the Thailand 4.0 and Digital Economy Framework, ‘Smart City’ is the key umbrella 
both in promoting the innovation industry and supporting the rapidly changing 
society. In this context, the Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa) is ‘the hub’ 
in the development of both digital manpower and technology, including standards, 
regulations and guidelines in materializing smart cities. 
Smart cities are citizen-centric. Contrary to some popular perceptions, smart cities 
do not always have to be ultra-high-tech. Instead, smart cities prefer ‘practical 
technology’ that fosters people’s wellbeing and livelihood. The key to a successful 
building of smart cities, therefore, is the understanding of the demands and needs 
of residents ‘from within.’ 
As the hub, depa connects the central and local governments, private sectors 
including startups, academic and research institutions, and external partners 
in both the ASEAN region and beyond. Currently, more than 40 cities are being 
promoted by depa and we welcome the support of our partner the British Embassy 
of Bangkok in facilitating this fruitful dialogue among our partners through this 
Smart City Handbook: Thailand.
Dr. Nattapon Nimmanpatcharin
President/CEO Digital Economy
Promotion Agency (depa)
Dr. Nattapon Nimmanpatcharin
President/CEO Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa)

Acknowledgments
Smart City Handbook: Thailand would not have been possible without the 
generous contributions from members across all sectors of Thai society, including 
stakeholders from both national and local government, private organisations and 
the research community.
In particular, thank you to the Smart City Thailand team within the Digital Economy 
Promotion Agency (depa) for their time, insights, and in-kind support in developing 
this Handbook. Also, thank you to the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration’s 
(BMA) Strategy and Evaluation Department for their guidance throughout.
Thank you to the various public stakeholders that participated in expert interviews 
and online surveys, including representatives from the National Economic and 
Social Development Council (NESDC), the Office of Natural Resources and 
Environmental Policy Planning (ONEP), the Energy Policy and Planning Office 
(EPPO), Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA), the Office of Transport and 
Traffic Policy and Planning (OTP), the Department of Public Works and Town & 
Country Planning (DPT), the Office of National Higher Education Science Research 
and Innovation Policy Council (NXPO), the Office of the Education Council (ONEC), 
the National Innovation Agency (NIA), the National Science and Technology 
Development Agency (NSTDA), the Digital Government Development Agency 
(DGA), the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO), Thailand Board of Investment (BOI), and 
the Eastern Economic Corridor Office (EECO), as well as Chiang Mai Municipality, 
Chonburi Municipality, Rayong Municiplaity, Phuket Municipality, Chachoengsao 
Municipality, Khon Kaen Municipality and Khon Kaen Governor’s Office. 
Thank you also to the various representatives from Siam Commercial Bank, 
Federation of Thai Industries, TRUE Digital Park, Magnolia Quality Development 
Corporation, Life & Living Co., Rayong City Development, Phuket City Development, 
Khon Kaen Think Tank, and National Charter. Thank you to the researchers that 
contributed expert opinions from the Thai Green Building Institute, Thailand 
Development Research Institute, Thammasat University, Chulalongkorn University, 
Mahidol University, Chiang Mai University, and National Charter.
The project team expresses its sincere appreciation to everyone mentioned above 
for their invaluable contributions to the successful development of this Handbook.
Urban Studies Lab (USL) was commissioned by FCDO for the research and 
production of this Handbook. USL is a Bangkok-based independent research 
institute and consultancy founded in 2018 by a cross-disciplinary team of 
academics and practitioners. 
USL draws on its broad range of experience and expertise in the fields of urban 
planning & development, architecture & design, community engagement, 
project management, communications, and the environmental and social 
sciences, to offer a unique and holistic approach to urban studies and 
consulting.
Project Lead: David Fiske
Engagement Leads: Pongpisit Huyakorn, Chamnarn Tirapas
English Editor: Thanan Lilaonitkul
Design and Layout: Kwankanung Sookbarameetham, Pornprom Pikulkaew
Analysts: Jirapatr Jitwattanasilp, Pichanun Wattanalertpong
Project Partner: Regional, Urban & Built Environmental Analytics (RUBEA)
External Contributors and Strategic Advisors: Dr. Nij Tontsirin, Dr. Sutee 
Anantsuksomsri, Dr. Supree Srisamran, Dr. Chaiyatorn Limapornvanich, Dr. 
Rattikarn Khambud, Korthong Thongtham Na Ayuttaya, Parinda Meecharad

Table of Contents
Background ...............................................................................1 
Foreword ...................................................................................3
Acknowledgments ................................................................ 4
INTRODUCTION: A PRIMER ON SMART CITIES ...7
CHAPTER 1: LESSONS FROM THE UK .................... 17
CHAPTER 2: SMART CITIES IN THAILAND .......... 31
CHAPTER 3: BANGKOK SMART CITY 
DEEP DIVE ...........................................................................49
Bangkok Overview ............................................................. 50
Bangkok Smart City Service Priorities ........................56
Smart Environment ........................................................ 58
Smart Water Metering & Monitoring .......................... 64
Smart Waste Management ............................................. 68
Smart Energy .....................................................................72
Smart Electricity Metering ............................................... 76
Electric Vehicle Charging Networks ............................ 80 
Peer-to-peer Energy Trading ......................................... 84
Smart Mobility .................................................................. 88
Intelligent Traffic Control .................................................92
Smart Public Transport. ....................................................96
WHAT’S NEXT? .................................................................161
List of Abbreviations ........................................................164
Smart Living .....................................................................100
Smart Disaster Management System ........................106
Smart Building Design .....................................................108 
Integrated Health Information System ........................112
Smart People ......................................................................114
EdTech ................................................................................... 118
Higher Education Partnerships ......................................121
Smart Governance ...........................................................122
Integrated Data Hub ..........................................................126
Open Data Platform ......................................................... 130
Smart Economy ................................................................132
Smart City Innovation Hubs .......................................... 136
High Skill Worker Development .................................... 138
Bangkok Area-based Projects ................................... 139
CHAPTER 4: EASTERN ECONOMIC CORRIDOR 
(EEC) & PILOT CITIES .....................................................151
EEC ........................................................................................ 152
Chonburi .............................................................................. 154
Rayong .................................................................................. 155
Chachoengsao ................................................................... 156
Phuket ................................................................................... 157
Khon Kaen ........................................................................... 158
Chiang Mai ........................................................................... 159

Department for 
International Trade (DIT) 
The Department for International Trade is the 
specialist Government department that supports: 
• Foreign companies seeking to set up or expand in 
the UK, and 
• UK-based companies to trade internationally. 
The Department for International Trade provides a 
fully integrated advisory service, delivering the latest 
business intelligence through a global network of 
commercial teams worldwide. 
The Department for International Trade works in 
close partnership with investment and economic 
development agencies in England, Scotland, Wales 
and Northern Ireland to help overseas companies to 
maximise their business objectives in the UK. 
FOR THAI COMPANIES INTERESTED IN UK 
SMART CITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We can help Thai companies connect to UK companies 
through our network of trade specialists from the 
Technology & Smart Cities Team. 
This includes: 
• Identification of possible business partners 
• Information on UK Technology and Smart Cities 
• Support during visits to the UK 
FOR UK COMPANIES INTERESTED IN THE THAI 
MARKET
DIT has trade specialists who can help you commission 
services from local experts overseas. 
This includes: 
• Country and sector advice 
• Local market research 
• Support during overseas visits 
• Identification of possible business partners 
• Preparation for exhibitions and events 
FOR THAI INVESTORS INTERESTED TO INVEST IN 
THE UK 
DIT will provide you with dedicated, professional 
assistance on locating and expanding your business in 
the UK. 
DIT and our regional partners offer free, confidential 
and tailored support in a number of key areas: 
• Links with centres of excellence (e.g. universities) 
• Information on tax, regulatory and business 
planning issues 
• Information on financial incentives if applicable 
• Information on staff recruitment 
• Site and Property search assistance 
• Building key contacts- we can provide 
introductions to service providers, local, regional 
and national government and trade organisations. 
• Aftercare through on-going support 
• Maximising your global potential- Once you are 
established in the UK, we can help your company 
to take advantage of new business opportunities 
and branch out to new locations – both in the UK 
and overseas. 
For more information, please contact: 
Thailand.dit@fcdo.gov.uk 

Introduction
A Primer on 
Smart Cities
All around the world, governments and citizens are working 
towards making their cities ‘smarter’. In every one of these 
places, people are also asking the question, ‘What is a smart 
city?’ This chapter provides the basic knowledge about smart 
cities you need in order to start building cities of the future, 
especially in Thailand.

What is a 
Smart City?
Cities have evolved over time and will 
continue to do so in perpetuity. In this 
light, the smart city should not be 
considered an end state that is easily 
attained. In fact, building the smart 
cities of the future will take time. A lot 
of time. And just as our cities are always 
evolving, so too will the ‘smart’ aspects 
of our cities need constant updates and 
attention.
If there is one simple way of 
understanding the smart city, it is that 
becoming ‘smart’ is the next logical 
step for cities to take in the context of 
emerging technologies and what we can 
do with them. 
Another important aspect of describing 
the smart city is that, in most parts of 
the world, smart city projects are very 
rarely happening at the complete city 
scale. You may be involved with the 
entire city, country or region, but more 
likely you will be working at the district, 
campus, neighbourhood, or even 
building level. 
However, these projects should be 
guided by a holistic vision of the city, 
and that is where this handbook can 
help.
Just as every city is made up of its 
own unique, constituent parts, every 
city should have its own, unique way 
of defining the smart city. So, while 
you won’t find a single definition put 
forth by this handbook, what you will 
find in this chapter are some important 
guiding principles and universal truths 
that should be considered when 
planning and developing the smart city. 
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
8
Notice that in all three cited definitions, 
the definition contains two common 
characteristics: (1) the application of 
technology or digital innovation, and (2) 
the expected benefits they bring to the 
city.
The specific ways in which technologies 
are applied in your city, region, country 
or community will differ from any other. 
This is necessary because the people, 
organisations and goals in each city are 
unique to that time and place.
Similarly, the benefits reaped from 
applying technology will differ, and 
should be tied to the specific needs in 
your city. 
For those working to make their city 
smarter - whether you are a city leader, 
private citizen, government official, 
local entrepreneur, foreign investor, or a 
student or researcher - it’s important to 
take the time to understand your city’s 
priorities, existing assets, and, perhaps 
most importantly, your potential 
partners, in order to create your own 
definition and vision of the ‘smart city’.
DEFINITIONS OF A SMART CITY
Researchers and practitioners around 
the world that have been working on the 
smart city concept for years have come 
up with their own definitions. 
Looking at how others define ‘smart 
city’ can be useful for understanding a 
basic pattern of thinking about it, and 
can serve as a good starting point for 
others to approach their own smart city 
development projects and strategies.
“[A city] that uses information and communications 
technology (ICT) to enhance livability, workability, and 
sustainability...[done by] collecting, communicating and 
‘crunching’ [data]” 
- Smart Cities Council -
“[A city] characterised by the integration of technology 
into a strategic approach to sustainability, citizen well-
being, and economic development” 
- Navigant Research -
“[A city that] leverages digital organisational principles, 
tools and innovations to...become more sustainable, 
inclusive, successful and creative.” 
- The New Digital Deal -

The Global Case for 
the Smart City
The motivations for cities to pursue 
their smart city vision are varied. Each 
city has its own set of issues that run 
the gamut from infrastructure to citizen 
needs that it needs to address. However, 
there are a number of powerful factors 
converging at this time that have 
compelled cities to make their cities 
smarter. 
Rapid and increasing urbanisation 
It is old news that humankind is now 
living in the urban age. More than half of 
the world’s population now live in cities, 
and driven by the economic and cultural 
opportunities our cities provide, that 
trend will only continue to grow. The 
United Nations projects that our cities 
will need to accommodate an additional 
3 billion people by 2050, and that we’ll 
need to create 40,000 new cities in the 
process. 
Growing frequency of disruptions 
Progress also has a destabilising power. 
With each step made forward, systems 
such as cities that were in harmony are 
often thrown off balance and challenged 
to readjust themselves to return to 
the centre. These disruptions come 
in all forms – societal, environmental, 
economic, and more. The COVID-19 
pandemic of 2020 is a prime example 
of a major disruption that cities need to 
prepare for and build resiliency.
Aging and inadequate infrastructure 
Cities are forever contending with 
aging infrastructure and meeting 
the demands of growing population. 
Underneath the veneer of attractive 
cities often lay crumbling and outdated 
utility systems that are not keeping 
up with developments. Municipalities 
need to deal with both the overtaxing of 
utility plants that could lead to outages 
and as well as leaky systems that are 
incurring unnecessary additional costs. 
Cities need smart city solutions to 
address these existing issues.
Citizen needs and expectations 
People want to live in places that 
make them happy, that offer them 
opportunity, and that allow them to get 
from home to work without sitting in 
traffic for two hours. They also have 
never before seen access to information 
that lets them see how other cities 
compare to their own. Simply put, 
citizens are demanding more from their 
cities and city government, and part of 
that is being smart.
Improving capabilities and decreasing 
cost of technology Fortunately, recent 
years have seen both the cost of 
smart technologies decline and their 
capabilities to make a positive impact in 
our cities improve. It has now become 
more feasible than ever before to apply 
smart solutions to address existing 
challenges, learn to anticipate future 
issues, and preempt them with a variety 
of tactics in order to provide better 
outcomes for everyone in our cities.
The global market continues to 
mature As the technologies themselves 
have become cheaper and easier to 
use, so has the number of examples of 
good practices and pool of experienced 
professionals in smart city services 
grown and expanded. While the market 
is still far from full maturity when 
compared to more traditional markets 
around the world, cities looking to enact 
their own smart city strategies and 
projects now have more support than 
ever before.
Technavio stated that the smart cities 
market – interrelated domains that 
impact urban living – was projected to 
reach $1.2 trillion USD as of 2019. This 
represents a massive opportunity for 
countries like Thailand to build smart 
cities and usher in a new marketplace 
that its citizens can partake in. This 
could stimulate innovation in its citizens. 
Once the market reaches a certain 
state of maturity, the quality of life 
for citizens and the city’s economic 
competitiveness and attractiveness will 
increase as a result.
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 9

If infrastructure is the circulatory system, data 
represents the red blood cells of any smart city 
travelling through it. The effective use of reliable, 
secure data from a wide range of sources and systems 
is what leads to real innovation in service provision. By 
collecting and analysing data across large numbers of 
sensors and devices, cities can gain insights that lead to 
better management of city systems, further enhancing 
competitiveness, and driving citizen-centric solutions.
In every part of the world, successful smart cities 
are the ones driven by a focus on transparency 
and open data, enabling citizens to understand and 
devise their own solutions, acquire new skills through 
online learning, and improve their interaction and 
accountability with public authorities. Cities must work 
across departments and reach out to businesses and 
citizens to develop clear expectations and rules around 
data sharing, privacy and security, allowing information 
to move seamlessly throughout the city to those that 
need it.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Pillars of Success 
for the Smart City
Regardless of your smart city needs and goals, 
successful smart cities must make the necessary 
investments in open and flexible ICT infrastructures. 
Smart infrastructure lays the foundations from which 
service innovation at scale is built upon, and without it, 
citywide benefits will not be possible. This starts with 
hard infrastructure, the circulatory system of high-
speed internet services, data centres and connected 
devices (sensors, measuring devices) that allow for the 
collection and communication of data. Second is the 
soft infrastructure, or the intelligent operations centres 
and cloud computing platforms needed to analyse, 
predict, and present information and deliver services. 
This is essentially the brain.
Before becoming ‘smart’, cities must advance a 
strategy for the development of an integrated smart 
infrastructure system that allows for interoperability 
and open access. What this means is that cities must 
avoid being ‘locked in’ to proprietary suppliers, and 
instead develop standards that allow any project to 
plug in, whether developed by government, business, 
or citizens. This allows cities to build projects over time 
while having confidence the pieces will all work together 
in the end.
Though every city’s journey towards 
becoming ‘smart’ is different, there 
are some ‘universal truths’ that have 
surfaced from the many smart city 
initiatives and efforts around the world. 
Entire books have been written 
describing how a city can set 
themselves up for success, regardless 
of location, culture, or size, rather than 
elaborating on every detail, this section 
distills these factors of success down 
to four essential pillars that provide 
practical guidance to anyone involved in 
making a smart city.
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand10

Though all of these other pillars are critical to the 
success of smart cities, it all starts and ends with 
people. Without a citizenry that understands how they 
may benefit from smart solutions, and that is capable of 
engaging in the process of building a smart city, there 
will never be adequate demand for the smart city to be 
realised.
Considering the degree of complexity involved in 
introducing advanced technologies to our cities, it 
can be followed that without the necessary skills and 
know-how within, not only government, but also the 
general public, it will be impossible for smart cities to 
thrive. Because of this, programmes must be put in 
place to educate and train the critical competencies of 
data sciences, IT leadership, cybersecurity, enterprise 
architecture, and others. Fortunately, the smart city 
sector has a large number of experienced global, 
regional and local consultants and service providers, 
especially in less-developed markets like Thailand, there 
is a critical opportunity to develop partnerships with 
those that have come before to seek mutually beneficial 
relationships for building skills and opening up new 
commercial markets.
SMART CITIZENS
Deploying digital transformation on any scale, in 
particular one as large as a city, requires a new way 
of thinking about urban planning, management and 
administration. Successful smart cities move to adapt 
traditional organisational models, breaking down siloes 
to focus on improved, shared outcomes for citizens. 
Technologies themselves are only as effective as the 
leaders and coordinating entities that put them to work. 
Strategic vision, cross-institutional partnerships, and 
new service delivery models are all required to drive a 
successful smart city. 
This new governance structure must include not only 
members of the city or government apparatus, but 
also an ecosystem of businesses, academia, citizens, 
local initiatives, and more. Citizen participation, public-
private partnerships, R&D projects, and other innovative 
partnership models are key to smart cities. Perhaps 
most importantly, those in charge of coordinating smart 
city efforts must have at least the basic knowledge 
of technology choices, funding options, legal and 
regulatory needs, and should be allowed to operate with 
a certain level of autonomy to work outside of existing 
governance structures and bring about change on their 
terms. 
URBAN GOVERNANCE
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 11

A New Marketplace of 
Opportunity
UNDERSTANDING THE SMART CITY 
ECOSYSTEM
The smart city is a new frontier for most cities. 
Even in more mature markets, supply and demand 
dynamics are still developing. Few cities have 
progressed beyond pilots or proof of concepts to 
a fully scaled and integrated smart city system. 
In cities and countries that are just beginning 
their smart city journeys, where few standards 
exist and there are very few, if any, entrenched 
market players, the path forward often feels risky 
and unknown. One thing that is clear, however, is 
the importance of leveraging partnerships and 
establishing new market mechanisms. 
The nature of smart cities requires that many 
different societal stakeholders be involved, all 
with their different and evolving roles to play. The 
following section provides a general overview of 
the typical stakeholders involved in the smart city 
ecosystem, and the groups that must be involved 
in the emerging smart city marketplace. 
For most smart city services and solutions, the citizen is the 
end user, meaning they create the demand in the smart city 
market. For smart city projects to be successful, citizens must 
be involved early and often in the process, and they can often be 
the source of innovation themselves.
With proven technologies and a large-pool of resources, large 
technology companies are an important player to support the 
scaling of solutions and to help establish industry standards.
Utilities and other providers of essential city services, like water, 
electricity, waste management and mobility, are central role 
players in leveraging smart technologies for improved service 
provision and collection and analysis of data.
Though government does not need to be the strongest player 
in the smart city market, their role as facilitator is critical to 
success. Government is best situated to articulate vision, 
provide open platforms for collaboration, set regulations, help 
create standards, and manage data. Government can often be a 
customer instead of provider for many smart city solutions.
Whereas larger companies are less likely to provide disruptive 
innovation to the market, truly novel inventions most often 
come from smaller companies, startups and even individuals. 
A successful smart city marketplace ensures these innovations 
are magnified, scaled and given market opportunity.
Schools, universities, police, hospitals, transport departments 
and other domain specific players will need specialised vendors 
that bring the necessary expertise, data know-how, and 
solutions to a particular sector.
Investors of all kinds are needed to support the new business 
ventures required for the smart city. From startups to long-term 
infrastructure, it is crucial that investment opportunities are 
made visible and matched with the right investors. 
Regulators play a critical role in the smart city, and whether a 
regulating body is fast to reform or stuck in the past can make 
or break a smart city initiative. Those involved in the smart city 
must know their regulators.
Telcos are key to providing connectivity in the system through 
their national networks of ICT infrastructures.
Around the world, higher education and research institutions, as 
well as local and international NGOs, play a key role in inventing, 
improving, measuring, benchmarking and validating the smart 
city. These entities often fill the role of mediator, bridging the 
gap between citizens and government or private stakeholders, 
and are key to a successful smart city marketplace.
GOVERNMENT 
LARGE TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES 
SMALL TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS 
UTILITIES
DOMAIN-SPECIFIC VENDORS AND 
ORGANISATIONS
INVESTORS
REGULATORS
ACADEMIA & NGOs 
CITIZENS
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand12

BUILDING THE MARKETPLACE
Smart city projects can be capital intensive 
and require specialised skillsets that 
may not be present in the market today. 
This requires governments to explore 
new funding models and partnership 
opportunities, as they cannot go it alone. 
However, this drastically oversimplifies 
what it takes to build a robust and mature 
smart city market.
Building the smart city marketplace 
requires active facilitation and support, 
and it requires moving away from 
government as the primary customer or 
provider. A mature smart city market will 
see all of the stakeholders listed on the 
previous page working together to shape 
standards, encourage demand, and nurture 
innovations to prove their value and scale 
to market. 
Most cities are not there, yet, and the 
learning curve can be steep. However, an 
important first step is to understand the 
basic process of fostering the smart city 
market. For this, we look to a simple model 
developed by Bas Boorsma in his book 
A New Digital Deal: Beyond Smart Cities. 
How to Best Leverage Digitalization for the 
Benefit of our Communities, which shows 
three interconnected methods needed for 
market creation: Create, Validate, and Scale.
Fostering a Market, Facilitating Value Creation 
The process of building a smart city market is almost never linear, but it should almost always start with 
identifying community and citizen needs, and designing service innovations based on those needs. In this 
process of value creation, a particular innovation is given the chance to mature, prove its value, be validated 
in addressing a presumed market need, and is able to scale.
VALIDATE SCALE
CREATE
Early service innovation concepts are designed based on identi¿ ed needs and given the means
and can be obtained through ‘Living Lab’ models or other pilots with real-world partners.
investm
ent (ROI) to investors. These early deployments must be sizable enough to prove out value,
Prom
ising sm
art city innovations require the opportunity to prove their value and potential return on
These e ntities possess the ability to go-to-market and provide scaled deploym
ent
corporate or enterprise adoption by a large technology com
pany or existing service provider. 
Once a solution proves functional, opportunities to scale often com
e from
 direct governm
ent procurem
ent or
 
that helps to establish predictability and standards.
 and tools (investment and accelerator support) to deploy in a way that proof of concept
(and eventually value) can be created
Proof of Value
Return on Investment 
(ROI) models
Real-world partnerships
Early Deployment
Pilot projects
Living Labs
Real-world Testing
Scaled Deployment
Government procurement
Corporate adoption
Service provider partnership
Scale, Standards, 
Go to Market
Large enterprise
Service providers
Proof of Concept (POC) Investment Support
Startups
Research & development
Innovation hubs
Traditional Finance
Venture Capital
Startup AcceleratorsIndividual innovators
Community & 
Citizen Needs 
Drive Service 
Design
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 13

THE TECHNOLOGIES THAT ENABLE 
THE SMART CITY
The previous diagram shows how 
successful smart cities put service design 
based on citizen needs at the centre of 
the smart city. This is a point you will find 
repeated throughout this handbook.
However, ‘smart’ technologies are a 
key enabling tool that new services and 
applications utilise to improve our lives 
and the world around us. They enable 
citizens to access and make sense of new 
information, support the learning of new 
skills, and improve our communication 
with authorities and each other. Many 
uses of technology may not even be 
visible to us, but they will help connect 
citizens to a seamless provision of 
services that make our lives easier, 
healthier, and more enjoyable.
And just as the nature of every smart 
city may differ, with varying needs 
and goals, there are a wide range of 
technologies and standards, all with 
unique features and specifications, that 
can be applied in the smart city. As 
someone involved in the smart city, t is 
important to understand the spectrum 
of technologies and devices you may be 
using. 
The table to the right provides a 
overview of the common categories of 
technology used in any smart city.
The actors in the system, Data 
Analytics & AI, Automation 
and Blockchain, analyse and 
act upon the information from 
the city.
The receivers of the data, 
sensors and the Internet of 
Things, collect and distribute 
the data that a smart city 
needs to operate.
Location is the unique 
common denominator upon 
which each individual or 
technology is identified.
The foundation of the smart 
city, infrastructure, ensures 
data can move around the 
city and is securely stored for 
future use.
The wired and wireless networks that connect all of our devices. 
Think 5G, WiFi, mobile networks, fibre-optic, and data centres. 
The fundamentals of the smart city, ICT infrastructure provides the 
foundation on which all smart city applications are built and enables 
the fast and secure movement and storage of data of all types. ICT 
infrastructure ensures that data can move between users and smart 
city applications and between users themselves.
SENSORS INTERNET OF THINGS
DATA 
ANALYTICS & AI AUTOMATION BLOCKCHAIN
ICT INFRAS-
TRUCTURE
Mapping the city helps make better decisions, and gives meaning to 
information that would otherwise be difficult to understand.
Geospatial technology uses satellite applications and Geographic 
Information System (GIS) to create, capture, and store geospatial 
data that can to create collaborative maps that allow citizens, 
planners, city leaders, and service providers to make more informed 
decisions. 
GEOSPATIAL 
TECHNOLOGY
Sensors are the often hidden but critical 
components of a smart city. Sensors monitor 
things like weather, air quality, traffic, and 
water levels, and can be used to automatically 
inform services 
The Internet of Things (IoT) is a system of 
interrelated computing devices, objects, and 
even people, that are connected to each other 
so that they can communicate and can take 
decisions for themselves.
The vast amount of data that 
sensors other IoT connected 
devices generate will require 
data analytics and AI to 
process it. 
Automation allows smart 
systems to analyse inputs 
from sensors and the 
Internet of Things and then 
take action, sometimes on 
its own
Though still in its infancy 
as a technology, blockchain 
addresses one of the 
biggest issues affecting 
smart cities, the security of 
data flow
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand14

Realities of Building
A Smart City
A new frontier 
While some countries are ahead of others in developing 
their urban centres, none can claim title as having the 
perfect smart city. The truth is all cities are constantly 
experimenting with smart city solutions, reacting to pre-
existing problems while anticipating future ones that are 
entirely dependent on their singular context. Smart city 
is a new frontier, where actors sometimes travel on the 
same path and in other moments on parallel ones. The only 
certainty is that everyone is heading in the same direction 
towards a broadly defined concept. As such, there is no 
universal roadmap. 
A long road ahead 
Before embarking on the smart city journey, cities must 
take time to do due diligence on themselves. Those who 
work and reside in them must understand their own state, 
from resources to capabilities to will. These will impact 
on how initiation, execution, and maintenance of a smart 
city will play out. The more well-positioned each piece is, 
the smoother the journey. Even then, each project that 
is but a small part of the smart city holistic plan may 
take years to realise. And by then, pivots will be needed 
to address relentless changes, be it in technological, 
political, environmental, societal, and more. To future proof 
themselves, cities must make sure their plans are neither 
too rigid nor too nebulous.
Risks of inequality 
Ideally, smart city solutions should benefit the entire 
spectrum of society. However, this will be hard to achieve. 
Technology tends to only be accessible to those who 
can afford it at the beginning and thus may exacerbate 
inequality. Nonetheless, this should not stop cities from 
pursuing a smart state. Solutions should be designed to 
be as equitable as possible. The user persona, or rather 
the full variety of it, must be fully embraced and equalized. 
This may mean preparing citizens with digital literacy and 
increasing access to technology required for the usage. 
Smart city solutions should not be costly for the majority of 
citizens.
A transient state 
A smart city is not an end state. It will not materialise 
fully formed at the flick of a switch. It is a constantly 
transient state that is morphed by changes in technology 
and demands of the times. Cities should not see it as a 
final evolution, where the job is done once things are 
implemented. The finish line is always being pushed further 
out. To take on smart city development is to accept an 
almost endless stream of projects, each building upon 
one another and requiring maintenance and updates, and 
sometimes retirement to make room for a new one.
Inner workings over the veneer 
Smart cities are presented as technological utopia with a 
clean and efficient lifestyle for its residents. This could not 
be further from reality. Smart city development are more 
about the inner workings of urban centres and what is 
unseen to users of solutions. Hard and soft infrastructure 
on the backend will need to be robust, well-designed, and 
efficient to be of good use to those on the frontend. A 
city can remain physically the same, but yet be smarter. 
Projects should focus on improving both processes and 
infrastructure that make the cities smart, rather than 
reaching for an image makeover.
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 15

How to Use 
This Handbook
Give the be-all and end-all knowledge
This Handbook does not provide 
a finality in smart city concepts or 
developments. It shows the most current 
and applicable information that can 
help the reader support smart cities in 
Thailand. But smart cities move fast, and 
when compounded by current events, 
what was once relevant can quickly 
become outdated. 
Provide foundational understanding
While smart city concepts and 
developments evolve, the pillars on 
which they are built will most likely 
withstand the test of time. The four 
introduced on pages 10-11 provide the 
reader with a solid base to reach from 
and build a robust and value adding 
smart city plan for their home cities, 
helping to deal with winds of change.
Prescribe rigid steps and instructions
As stated before, there is no universal 
definition of a smart city, and therefore 
there is no universal set of steps or 
criteria for a city to follow. Each city 
must identify their own bespoke needs 
and create a smart city vision and 
roadmap to meet them. The hope is this 
Handbook helps inspire you to do that. 
Contain an exhaustive list of contacts
While specific entities are highlighted 
in this Handbook, they are not meant 
to be exhaustive. This is but the tip of 
the iceberg of all the actors involved 
in smart city development in both 
Thailand and the UK. Readers are highly 
encouraged to seek further information 
for entities that would be relevant to 
their prospective projects.
Encourage critical thinking in planning
This Handbook provides fundamental 
knowledge base that is meant to 
support critical thinking in the process 
of strategising and planning. Readers 
should use the information provided 
to reflect themselves and their city’s 
status quo. From there, they can derive 
the path forward and build a flexible 
roadmap that is each unique to them.
Urge exploring connections
Almost every entity mentioned in this 
Handbook is open to exploring potential 
partnership opportunities. The reader is 
encouraged to use this Handbook as a 
resource to build the vital relationships 
needed to build the smart city. The 
conclusion of this book provides some 
next steps and recommendations for 
building towards collaboration. 
WHO IS THIS HANDBOOK FOR?
This Handbook is for anyone who is learning to better understand how to approach 
smart city development in Thailand. Any actor in the smart ecosystem mentioned 
previously on page 12 would do well by simply using it as a starting point. For 
city leaders, planners, it can augment their decision-making process for digital 
transformations in cities. For private companies and service providers, it can help 
identify opportunities by anticipating future needs of city users. For citizens, it can 
reveal what is possible, shape demands, and inspire ideas. For UK companies and 
organisations, it can lead to local partnerships that require know-how in the Thailand 
smart city sector.
WHAT INFORMATION WILL BE FOUND IN THIS HANDBOOK?
This primer on smart city provides the lens by which the rest of the Handbook should 
be viewed. First, an overview of the UK’s own smart city journey and strengths reveal 
how they can support Thailand’s smart city ambitions. Second, a summary of the 
current state of smart city development in Thailand, the major stakeholders, and 
mechanisms for building towards smarter cities lay the groundwork for readers. 
Finally, a look at major smart city initiatives that are ongoing or upcoming in Thailand, 
in particular Bangkok, identifies commercial and partnership opportunities between 
Thai and UK stakeholders. 
THIS HANDBOOK DOES NOT THIS HANDBOOK DOES
Introduction: A Primer on Smart Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand16
READER INSIGHTS
The light bulb icon highlights key 
insights into the content on the 
respective page for readers to take 
away and refer to in the future.
UK CITY INSIGHTS
The “UK city” icon identifies UK-
specific lessons learned, case studies, 
and partnership opportunities that 
Thai smart city actors can look into.

Chapter 1
Lessons from
the UK
The historic and growing emphasis on smart city 
development in the UK has made it home to world-leading 
expertise in the sector, which has brought increased 
opportunities for investment and export of established 
knowledge and services around the globe. This chapter 
summarises how the UK has successfully fostered a mature 
smart city market, and highlights some of the ways Thailand 
could benefit from a partner like the UK.

In 2010, an emphasis was placed on the improved access 
to public data, and the Public Sector Transparency 
Board was established to help drive the Government’s 
transparency agenda, making open data and 
transparency a core part of all government operations. 
In 2012, the Open Data White Paper was published 
to set out a vision for a truly transparent society, 
with an emphasis on developing and promoting open 
data applications that meet citizen needs. Out of this 
came the launch of the Open Data Institute (ODI), an 
independent, non-profit partially funded by a £2 million 
TSB investment. 
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Building the Pillars 
of Success in the UK
Smart cities rely on infrastructure investment and the 
UK Government is committed to creating the conditions 
that encourage investment. The establishment of the 
Technology Strategy Board (TSB) in 2007 (now Innovate 
UK) helped focus investment and support for cities and 
businesses to integrate technologies for improved city 
operations and service delivery. 
In 2016 the Government announced a new £400 million 
Digital Infrastructure Investment Fund, matched by 
private finance, that will invest in new fibre networks up 
to 2020. The roll-out of 5G networks was scheduled to 
start in 2019 with widespread coverage by 2022.
Since the late 1990s, the UK has been at 
the forefront of digitising government 
services and promoting the transparency 
and open use of data at both the national 
and local level. 
This puts the UK two or three decades 
ahead of most countries in the world 
in its progress towards smart city 
development. To be clear, the last decade 
in the UK has mostly been characterised 
by pilot projects and a select group of 
model cities, and it still has much to do in 
truly achieving its goals. 
However, the way in which the 
government enables innovation in the 
market, and the active role of cities and 
the private sector, serves as an excellent 
model to learn from for Thailand and 
other countries in the region.
A major part of their success comes 
from having an integrated approach to 
infrastructure development, open data 
and transparency, and coordination 
amongst the many stakeholders in the 
smart city sector. 
To the right is a summary of how the UK 
has been a leader in building its pillars of 
success for smart cities.
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
The UK is committed to developing the skilled 
workforce and digital competencies in their citizens to 
see their future cities thrive. 19 universities currently 
offer postgraduate degrees in Smart Cities and nine 
universities offer PhD scholarships.
Universities are not only providing research support, 
but are also often active players in defining projects, 
securing funding, defining strategies, and contributing to 
or providing leadership of programmes. 
Partnerships with universities prove to be a win-win 
relationship as universities gain access to real-world big 
datasets, and build closer bonds with local communities 
and decision makers. 
SMART CITIZENS
City Deals continue the move towards the devolution 
of power and responsibility from central government 
to cities and regions, and is one of the most important 
influences shaping UK smart city agendas. However, 
UK Government still plays a key role in development of 
smarter cities. The Government Digital Service (GDS) 
was established in 2011 to provide support, advice and 
technical expertise to departments at all levels as new 
digital delivery models developed.
The Future Cities Catapult (now Connected Places 
Catapult), established in 2013, facilitated work between 
businesses, universities and city workers to develop 
solutions to the future needs of UK cities.
URBAN GOVERNANCE
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand18

The UK’s Market 
Making Approach
The UK Government recognised early 
on that businesses and cities cannot, on 
their own, overcome the many obstacles 
facing the establishment and growth of 
the smart city market. The market was 
too underdeveloped. It needed major 
investment in appropriate infrastructure, 
new regulations, and clear standards to 
push it forward. 
The series of actions seen in the 
previous section are evidence of an 
intentional ‘market making approach’ - 
one that adheres closely to the principles 
described in the previous chapter. 
On closer inspection, we can observe the 
UK Government playing three important 
roles right from the start: coordinator, 
funder, and regulator.
Coordinator 
In 2013, the government launched Future 
Cities Catapult (now Connected Places 
Catapult) with the mission of helping cities, 
both in the UK and globally, identify their 
challenges and explore how new technologies 
could be used to address them. The Catapult 
improves coordination between cities and the 
private sector by matching businesses with 
city employees. Together, they identify the 
value and potential use of data and collaborate 
on testing and development of scalable 
business models to help cities meet their goals 
and improve the lives of citizens. 
Research Councils UK (now UK Research 
and Innovation (UKRI)), established in 2002, 
supports the development of new research 
centres. 
Funder
In 2012, the Technology Strategy Board 
(TSB; now Innovate UK) ran Future Cities 
Demonstrator, offering £24m to the best 
proposal, as well as funding for 30 other cities 
to conduct feasibility studies. And in 2017, 
the £400m Digital Infrastructure Investment 
Fund (DIIF) added to a previously invested £1.7 
billion to spur industry to develop nationwide 
superfast broadband. 
Regulator 
British Standards Institute (BSI) has worked 
with regulators and other partners to help 
develop a flexible, clear set of guidelines to 
look to when developing their own smart city 
initiatives. These standards have aided cities 
and businesses in their efforts to access 
funding, guided public policy and investment 
strategies, and provided stability to an often 
uncertain and unstructured sector.
 
The UK Government funded testing and piloting of smart city 
projects and invested in ICT infrastructures that supports 
them. This moved smart cities projects from ideas to execution 
quickly without having to wait for private sector investment.
FUNDER
MARKET
COORDINATOR
REGULATORThe Government proactively introduced 
organisations to one another and encouraged 
collaboration where mutual benefits of smart 
city development were to be found. Cross-
sector network building fostered relationships 
needed to bring smart cities projects to life. 
The UK established one of the strongest regulatory 
environments for smart city development in the 
world. With structure and definitions provided, key 
players can speak the same technical language 
while operating within well-defined rules.
HOW THE UK GREW THEIR SMART CITY MARKET
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 19

Through the purposeful 
orchestration by UK Government, 
UK cities have been setup for 
success. Several have even been 
recognised in global rankings as 
some of the most innovative smart 
cities in the world.
Glasgow, recipient of the £24m 
Future Cities Demonstrator award 
from TSB (now Innovate UK) in 
2013, has since implemented 
its 
Future Cities Glasgow 
programme, including a central 
city management system, and 
many of the ideas developed in 
the feasibility studies have been 
carried forward. The award has 
been used to fund a series of 
projects across the city that aim 
to improve the lives of Glasgow 
citizens and to establish the city as 
a centre of urban innovation. 
While the 
Demonstrator projects 
were completed at the end of 2015, 
Glasgow’s smart city development 
has expanded through the Scottish 
Cities Alliance, for which Glasgow 
is leading the Smart Cities 
Scotland workstream. 
CITIES ARE SET UP TO WIN - FUTURE CITY GLASGOW
Glasgow City Council continues 
to drive efforts to improve smart 
city services. Below are just two 
of the projects that are built off of 
the momentum with 
Future City 
Glasgow:
Glasgow Operations Centre is a 
state-of-the-art integrated traffic 
and public safety management 
system. The ‘beating heart of 
the city’, the new centre has 
the capability to provide a co-
ordinated, real-time, intelligence-
led, response to incidents large 
and small across the city, placing 
Glasgow at the leading edge of 
smart city management.
MyGlasgow is a new and improved 
citizen app that is opening up 
data about the city, looking at 
innovative ways to harness it, 
and making it discoverable for 
everyone’s use. This two-way 
communication channel will 
connect city government with 
citizens to empower individuals 
and communities, improve 
customer service and enhance 
service efficiency.
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand20

Key Players in 
UK Smart City 
Innovate UK is part of UK Research 
and Innovation, a non-departmental 
public body funded by a grant-in-aid 
from the UK government. They connect 
businesses to the partners, customers 
and investors that can help them turn 
ideas into commercially successful 
products and services and business 
growth.
The Department for Business, Energy 
and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) was 
created in July 2016. The department 
is at the heart of the government’s 
commitment to deliver an ambitious 
industrial strategy. It works to maximise 
the investment opportunities for the 
UK, promote competitive markets, and 
ensure the UK has a reliable, low cost 
and clean energy system.
Ofcom is the regulator for the 
communications services in the UK. 
This includes many of the fundamental 
technologies of smart cities such as 
broadband, wireless networks and the 
future roll-out of 5G networks.
techUK represents the companies 
and technologies that are defining 
today the world that we will live in 
tomorrow. More than 900 companies 
are members of techUK. Collectively 
they employ approximately 700,000 
people, about half of all tech sector 
jobs in the UK. Their SmarterUK 
Programme is the champion for smart 
infrastructure deployment in the UK 
and for companies operating in that 
supply chain. It has been designed to 
help members develop networks and 
markets and reduce business costs 
and risks.
The Institute of Civil Engineers (ICE) is 
a professional membership body that 
works with government and industry 
to develop skills within the built 
environment. ICE includes a number of 
expert panels and knowledge panels 
who conduct a range of activities from 
best practice guidance to commenting 
on government infrastructure policy.
The British Standards Institute (BSI) 
was first established in 1901 and 
produces technical standards on a wide 
range of products and services and 
supplies certification and standards-
related services to businesses. BSI 
enables people and organisations to 
perform better. They share knowledge, 
innovation and best practices to make 
excellence a habit – all over the world, 
every day. 
The Connected Places Catapult 
operates at the intersection between 
public and private sectors. They 
convene the disparate parts of the 
market to help innovators navigate the 
complexity of doing business, creating 
new commercial opportunities and 
improving productivity, socio-economic 
and environmental benefits for places. 
Their portfolio of work includes 
international, non-UK projects, as well.
The Government Digital Service is a 
unit of the Government of the United 
Kingdom’s Cabinet Office tasked with 
transforming the provision of online 
public services and helping government 
work better for everyone by leading 
digital transformation.
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
21

BSI for Smart Cities
The British Standards Institute (BSI) 
was first established in 1901 as the 
Engineering Standards Committee. 
Over the previous century, it has 
extended its work to produce 
technical standards on a wide range 
of products and services and supplies 
certification and standards-related 
services to businesses. Their mission 
is to share knowledge, innovation, 
and best practice to help people and 
organisations make excellence a habit 
nationwide. As of 2014, the BSI portfolio 
now includes a dedicated Smart Cities 
section.
The UK Department for Business, 
Innovation and Skills (BIS) 
commissioned BSI to develop a 
standards strategy for smart cities 
in the UK with the intention to 
accelerate implementation of smart 
cities projects and provide quality 
assurance. Subsequently, the Cities 
Standards Institute was launched: a joint 
initiative between BSI and the Future 
Cities Catapult. Inclusive stakeholder 
engagement processes within the 
initiative helped identify the challenges, 
provide solutions, and define the future 
of smart city standards in the UK.
Since then, a rich body of publicly 
available standards and guidance 
documents have been rolled out. 
Though not legally binding, these 
unified guidance documents have 
helped provide a clear starting point 
that city leaders, citizens and suppliers 
needed to navigate a then-nascent 
market. Some have been developed 
into binding policy documents and 
integrated into funding instruments.
The BSI standards are widely regarded 
as an international example of best 
practice, and have been used to guide 
international standards and other 
countrywide documents throughout the 
world.
BSI SMART CITIES BODY OF KNOWLEDGE
As of 2020, BSI has developed eight 
guidance and standards documents 
for smart cities. 
PAS 181, Smart City 
Framework - Guide to establish-
ing strategies for smart cities and 
communities details a comprehensive 
approach to building a smart city, and 
it has been utilised by many cities and 
communities throughout the UK and 
the world.
The overview of this framework can 
be seen on the following page.
SMART CITIES DEFINED IN THE BSI SMART CITY FRAMEWORK (SCF)
As previously discussed, smart cities 
have countless facets and one universal 
definition would be too simplistic and 
reductive to do them justice. The BSI 
SCF provides a definition (below), but 
also includes two important caveats for 
readers to consider:
“A smart city is an effective integration 
of physical, digital and human systems 
in the built environment to deliver a 
sustainable, prosperous and inclusive 
future for its citizens.”
“This definition is deliberately presented 
as a working definition rather than 
intended as a definitive definition which 
all cities are to follow. While there is a 
strong degree of commonality among 
the smart city strategies that are being 
developed around the UK, there is also 
significant diversity. All cities embarking 
on development of a smart city strategy 
can define their own reasons for doing so, 
in their own language […].”
“This definition deliberately avoids 
describing a perfect end-state […]. 
All cities are different: the historical, 
cultural, political, economic, social 
and demographic context for each 
city is different […]. So the SCF is not 
a one size fits-all prescription for what 
a city might look like in future, but 
focuses on the enabling processes 
by which new technologies coupled 
with organizational change can help 
deliver the diverse visions for future 
UK cities.”
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand22

A. GUIDING PRINCIPLES
At the outset of projects, BSI 
recommends that the wide range of 
stakeholders and delivery partners 
are united by crafting an enduring 
statement of values. These can serve as 
steadying force to steer decision-making 
over the long term. In the process of 
creating guiding principles with one 
another, buy-in from all parties is 
achieved and expectations are aligned. 
Four key traits of the guiding principles 
are: 
• Visionary
• Citizen-centric
• Digital
• Open and collaborative
B. KEY CROSS-CITY GOVERNANCE AND DELIVERY PROCESSES
This is a set of practical guidance notes 
on how to deliver Guiding Principles in 
practice. City silos are a major obstacle 
in smart cities development. These 
notes focus on addressing city-wide 
challenges of joining-up across city silos 
in three areas:
• Business management and 
governance that should be 
managed at whole-of-city level.
• Citizen-centric service 
management
• Technology and digital asset 
management
D. CRITICAL SUCCESS FACTORS
Smart Cities projects face significant 
risks in delivery. By creating a checklist 
of critical success factors which a city 
should regularly monitor, risks can be 
proactively managed and mitigated 
effectively, thus increase the probability 
of project success. 
• Strategic 
clarity
• Stakeholder 
engagement
• Achievable 
delivery
• Leadership
• User focus
• Future 
proofing
• Skills
• Supplier 
partnerships
• Benefits
C. BENEFIT REALISATION STRATEGY
To avoid wasting resources on 
programmes that does not or cannot 
deliver what has been promised, 
BSI recommends proactive benefits 
management. This documented 
strategy ensures that the intended 
benefits of a smart city project are 
clearly articulated, measured, managed, 
delivered, and evaluated in practice. 
Three pillars of this strategy are:
• Benefit mapping, where intended 
outcomes and clear line-of-sight 
from activity and investment 
output flow through to outcomes 
are set
• Benefit tracking, where current 
performance by the city is 
set against target output and 
outcomes and progress is tracked 
against success criteria of future 
vision
• Benefit delivery, where governance 
arrangements are set for clear 
accountabilities in delivery and 
outcome
PAS 181 Smart City Framework - 
Guide to establishing strategies 
for smart cities and communities 
| British Standards Institute (BSI) 
2014
PAS 181 focuses on four components 
as building blocks upon which cities 
can use to customise their own plans. 
BSI believes that stakeholders and 
partners should develop these enabling 
processes together, namely guiding 
principles, key cross-city governance 
and delivery processes, benefit 
realisation strategy, and critical success 
factors, all of which can help jumpstart 
and deliver the diverse visions for future 
UK cities in more efficient, effective, and 
sustainable ways. 
The robust framework offers depth 
and breadth in application for smart 
cities. The universal and flexible nature 
of it means that any city in the world 
can learn much from the framework 
and adopt it partially or wholly as a 
springboard for their own smart city 
endeavors.
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
23

Smart Cities in 
the UK Today
After more than two decades of 
progress and support towards 
smart cities, the movement is firmly 
established in the UK. Recent research 
suggests that almost a third of the 
UK’s urban areas with populations over 
100,000 currently have clear ambitions 
or substantial programmes labeled as 
‘smart’. Significant support from the UK 
Government, and clear policy directives 
and standards have enabled cities to 
take the lead.
However, just as no two cities are the 
same, UK smart cities are developing 
at their own speeds. Some are 
international leaders, achieving high 
ranks in global indexes and providing 
valuable case studies for others to learn 
from. Others are still in the nascent 
stages of forging a vision and engaging 
the relevant stakeholders to build 
towards their version of ‘smart’. 
1
1
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
5
6
6
6
7
7
8
8
9
Smart City Leaders These cities 
are leading the way not just in the 
UK, but around the world. They have 
differentiated themselves through the 
clarity, breadth, and inclusiveness of 
their smart city vision and planning. 
These cities have established the 
advanced infrastructure that can offer 
testbeds for commercialising new 
technology, and they are leading the 
way in implementing significant projects 
at both the pilot, and increasingly 
cityscale. 
Developing Smart Cities 
While these cities have laid down a 
vision for their smart city endeavours 
and begun to deploy projects, at least 
in some areas, execution still trails 
the vision outlined by a significant 
margin. These cities may still have 
major infrastructure needs or planned 
upgrades, and though they may have 
shown strong initiative in a few key 
areas, they are lacking in the broader 
smart city execution.
Emerging Smart Cities These cities 
have expressed initial statements of 
intent and may have developed limited 
pilot projects within specific service 
silos. However, there is still considerable 
work to be done in terms of developing 
a strategic programme and building the 
extensive ecosystem required for more 
holistic smart city developments.
Smart City Leaders 
1. Glasgow
2. Edinburgh
3. Manchester
4. Bristol
5. Oxford
6. London
Developing Smart Cities
1. Newcastle
2. Leeds
3. Notthingham
4. Peterborough
5. Birmingham
6. Cambridge
7. Milton Keynes
8. Brighton
Emerging Smart Cities
1. Aberdeen
2. Dundee
3. Belfast
4. Liverpool
6KḢHOG
&DUGL̆
7. Reading
8. Exeter
9. Bournemouth
Smart Cities in the UK
UK MAKES THE RANKS
IESE Cities in 
Motion Index 2019
London #1
Edinburgh #46
Glasgow #64
Roland Berger 
Smart City Index 
2019
London #2
Edinburgh #7
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand24

Strategy & Leadership – A renewed 
commitment from the London mayor 
in 2016 has reinvigorated London’s 
smart city initiatives throughout its 
33 boroughs. The focus in London is 
now on the quality and use of data to 
improve services and to achieve priority 
outcomes.
LONDON – THE GLOBAL LEADER
Governance & Management – A new 
Chief Data Officer (CDO) appointed in 
2016 has driven greater collaboration 
across all parties involved in London’s 
smart city development. The Smart 
London Board, refreshed under new 
leadership in 2017, advises the mayor 
and CDO with members from across the 
public sector, academia, and industry. 
Infrastructure & Data – London was an 
early proponent of open data for urban 
innovation and Transport for London is a 
global leader in smart mobility and open 
data, and City of London is now 90% 
enabled for ultrafast broadband. 
Stakeholder Engagement - Conference 
hosting, hackathons and the Tech City UK 
initiative have helped drive engagement 
with the smart city concept. 
Strategy & Leadership – The MK:Smart 
programme serves as the foundation of 
Milton Keynes development as a smart 
city. Transport and urban mobility is the 
key focus area for Milton Keynes’, being 
the site for the first AV demonstration in 
Europe in October 2016.
Governance & Management – MK:Smart 
is a collaborative initiative that was partly 
funded by the Higher Education Funding 
Council for England and led by The Open 
University, the Milton Keynes Council, 
and BT, with support technology partners 
including BT, Huawei, and Tech Mahindra.
Infrastructure & Data – Milton Keynes 
was one of the first urban regions to 
implement a network based on IoT 
technology. 
Stakeholder Engagement - An Innovation 
and Incubation Centre at University 
Campus Milton Keynes is designed to 
integrate training and support
Strategy & Leadership – Liverpool has 
developed several smart city initiatives 
without establishing a formal overarching 
programme or leadership board. Initial 
smart city projects have emphasised the 
city’s economic growth with a particular 
focus on the central research and 
education hub Knowledge Quarter. 
Governance & Management – The 
Knowledge Quarter (KQ), the location of 
Liverpool’s most ambitious smart city 
initiatives, is lead by a board of partners 
consisting of Liverpool City Council 
and a number of local higher education 
institutions, including University of 
Liverpool and Liverpool John Moores 
University.
Infrastructure & Data – In 2017, Sensor 
City was launched in the KQ to support 
the development of a hi-tech sensor hub 
and is developing a low powered network.
Stakeholder Engagement - KQ aims 
to bridge the knowledge gap between 
new disruptive technologies and local 
enterprise. 
MILTON KEYNES - MOBILITY MASTER
LIVERPOOL - NEW SENSOR CITY
LEADEREMERGING DEVELOPING
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 25

The historic and growing emphasis on smart city 
development in the UK has made it home to world-
leading expertise in the sector. This has brought 
increased opportunities for investment and export of 
established knowledge and services around the globe.
The following section outlines the major UK expertise in 
the smart city sector, and highlights some notable case 
studies providing an example of how it benefits their 
citizens.
UK Smart City 
Systems & Expertise 
UK Smart City Systems
The UK is home to expertise in smart city development that is proving valuable to cities across the world. UK companies 
DQG*RYHUQPHQWFDQSURYLGHVXSSRUWDQGNQRZKRZLQ¿HOGVUDQJLQJIURPXUEDQSODQQLQJSXEOLFHQJDJHPHQWDQG
WUDQVSRUWDWLRQWRGDWDVRIWZDUHDQGDQDO\WLFVDGYDQFHGLQIUDVWUXFWXUHHQJLQHHULQJ FRQVWUXFWLRQDQGSURMHFW
PDQDJHPHQWDQG¿QDQFH
Smart Citizens
Smart Energy
• Smart grids
• Flexible energy distribution
• Renewable energy
• Vehicle-to-Grid technology
Smart Buildings & 
Housing
Data Analytics
Urban Planning
& Project Delivery
• Energy efficiency
• High performance buildings
• Self learning appliances
• Innovative construction
• Data sharing 
• Data visualisation
• Monetisation of data 
• Natural Language Processing 
• Urban planning 
• Project Delivery 
• Sustainability Consultancy
• Engineering Consultancy 
Smart Infrastructure
• Internet of Things (IoT)
• Improved public services
• Public safety and emergency 
management
• Evolving legacy systems
Smart
Governance
• Urban planning
• Citizen engagement
• Open data
• Efficient services
Smart Mobility
• Intelligent Transport Solutions
• Mobility-as-a-Service
• Integrated Transport
• Data sharing
Smart Health
Security 
• Managing electronic records
• Smart hospitals
• Positive behaviour management
• Managing illness
• Blockchain
• Cyber security
• Surveilance systems
• Biometrics 
The citizen is at the centre of the smart city 
ecosystem in the UK, and it is a general rule that 
any investment opportunity, both domestically 
and abroad, should be able to demonstrate 
the positive impact it will have on how citizens 
interact with their environment. 
This stems from an understanding that the 
only way to achieve broad acceptance of new, 
disruptive technologies is by engaging citizens in 
understanding how they may improve their lives. 
This is why the UK has been such a champion 
of open data and transparency. Such initiatives 
enable citizens to access information and devise 
solutions, support the acquisition of new skills, 
and improve interaction with public authorities.
By making smart city solutions citizen-, or user-
focused, it in turn will drive the demand needed to 
build a successful smart city ecosystem.
Smart Citizens
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand26

Smart Energy Smart Buildings & 
Housing Smart Infrastructure
UK companies have wide-ranging expertise 
encompassing everything from research into 
innovation, manufacturing, construction and 
deployment of energy efficient buildings, 
renewable energy technologies and electric 
vehicles, as well as the policy and regulatory 
expertise required to support these. 
Significant energy sector expertise exists in 
offshore wind, smart grids, waste to energy, 
solar, electric & hybrid vehicles, carbon capture, 
utilisation and storage, hydrogen & fuel cells, 
bioenergy & biofuels, green finance. 
The UK is home to some of the world’s leading 
engineering and architectural firms, such as 
Foster + Partners and Arup, which have been 
involved in many of the world’s most high-profile 
low-carbon, energy efficient projects. 
UK companies and policy experts can offer 
services ranging from engineering and 
architectural services for efficient design, 
modelling and software tools for more effective 
project design, lighting solutions and supply 
of HVAC equipment, project management and 
logistics for the construction process, and 
products and services related to postoccupancy. 
Developing smart, resilient and integrated 
infrastructure is a priority across the UK. It is the 
backbone that enables the successful provision 
of smart city solutions.
UK strengths in the smart infrastructure 
sector range from managed networked IT and 
communications services, systems integration, 
design and consulting, data management 
& analytics, data centres, cloud computing, 
artificial intelligence (AI), semiconductor design, 
and intelligent sensor networks. 
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 27

Smart Mobility Smart Health
The UK is widely regarded as a world-leader in 
eGovernance, open data, and urban planning, 
utilising the intelligent use of technology 
to improve decision-making through better 
collaboration among different stakeholders, 
including government and citizens. 
The Government Digital Service (GDS) works 
with governments around the world to help 
them tackle issues ranging from corruption, 
data systems, and citizen engagement, and 
leading UK management and consulting firms 
specialise in helping cities develop integrated 
data platforms to make services more efficient, 
support better urban planning, and streamline 
business registration and citizen payments.
The UK is home to some of the most advanced 
transport networks in the world and is at 
the forefront of smart mobility testing and 
applications. Transport for London (TfL) is a 
world leader in integrated transport innovation 
and many aspects of the TfL model have been 
adopted by other cities around the world. 
Smart mobility companies and organisations 
offer intelligent transport solutions including 
smart parking and traffic management, on-
demand and autonomous mobility solutions, 
smart ticketing, mobility-as-a-service (MaaS), 
and integrated payment systems. 
UK companies and the National Health Service 
(NHS) are combining the power of data analytics 
and AI to analyse health data and extract 
valuable new insights about patients and the 
overall health of the city. 
The UK is a frontrunner in the use of primary 
care electronic health records and an early 
adopter of several key parts of the digital health 
market, particularly digital imaging, telecare, 
mHealth and wearables, and is a world leader in 
innovative assisted living services for the elderly. 
Smart Governance
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand28

Urban Planning & 
Project Delivery Data Analytics
The rise of increased data sharing and new 
business models within smart cities creates 
significant vulnerabilities and security issues. 
This has created opportunities in the cyber 
security sector for IoT devices and networks. 
UK universities are at the leading edge of this 
new IoT cybersecurity market. Aside from cyber 
security, security in the Smart City can relate to 
the intelligent use of surveillance equipment and 
biometric technologies.
Due to the vast nature of smart city technology 
and projects, urban planners and consultancies 
are playing an ever more prominent role in the 
design, creation and delivery of Smart Cities. 
The UK has over 17,000 architecture and 
planning firms that specialise in bringing 
together technology, skills and experience into 
a package to deliver positive change to an area, 
including BREEAM green building standards 
and Building Information Management (BIM) 
software used internationally.
Data analytics allows computers to quantify the 
millions of digital elements of urban life that are 
created by sensors and the IoT. To realise the 
benefits of data analytics it is essential that data 
is shared throughout the smart city. 
Open data projects collect either full data sets 
or metadata from existing databases, often 
from multiple sources, into huge, searchable 
databases or archives of different types of 
machine-readable media.
Smart Security
Chapter 1: Lessons from the UK | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 29

7KH8.¶VRZQVPDUWFLW\MRXUQH\KDVEHHQORQJ 
,WKDVQRGRXEWEHHQ¿OOHGZLWKH[SHULPHQWDWLRQWKDW
has led to successes in empowering and propelling UK 
FLWLHVWRWKHIRUHIURQWRIWKHVPDUWFLW\VHFWRU
The government bodies and private entities that 
have been involved in the steps along the way have 
accumulated knowledge and experience. They are now 
SULPHGWRKHOSRWKHUQDWLRQVDQGFLWLHVOHDUQSODQDQG
H[HFXWHVPDUWFLW\SURMHFWVLQZD\VWKDWHQDEOHWKHPWR
OHDSIURJRYHULQLWLDOEDUULHUV

Chapter 2
Smart Cities 
in Thailand
Thailand has pinned its future development to the digital 
economy. Leaders have laid out ambitious plans to address 
the nation’s challenges and improve its people’s prosperity 
through ‘smart’ principles, and the smart city will be a key 
driver for Thailand to achieve its goals. This chapter explains 
the state of smart cities in Thailand, as well as the major 
stakeholders and policy frameworks driving this future 
industry.

A National Agenda 
for Smart Cities
Propelled by the Thailand 4.0 policy, 
nearly all ministries and government 
departments have moved to incorporate 
strategies and plans for the digitalisation 
of its workforce and services.
Under this broad framework, the smart 
city has been identified as a crucial agent 
for achieving national development 
goals. The 20-year National Strategy 
(2017-2036), the long-term strategic 
framework steering Thailand towards 
achieving the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), lays out a 
roadmap for implementation of Thailand 
4.0 that includes a focus on livable cities 
and improved public administration. The 
subsequent 12th National Economic and 
Social Development Plan (2017-2021), 
National Master Plan #6 (2017-2036), 
and National Digital Economy Master 
Plan (2017-2036) firmly establish smart 
city concepts as a driving force for the 
future of Thailand’s prosperity.
The birth of Smart City Thailand 
At this same time, the MICT was 
reorganised into the Ministry of Digital 
Economy and Society (MDES), further 
emphasising the increasingly important 
role of digital technology in the national 
development agenda. As the ministry 
responsible for implementation of both 
the National Master Plan #6 and Digital 
Economy Master Plan, MDES is now the 
primary ministry responsible for driving 
smart city implementation in Thailand. 
In this role, MDES established the smart 
city pilot city programme, highlighting 
Phuket as the first official smart city 
project in Thailand, followed closely by 
Chiang Mai. 
It was at this time that a new form of 
government agency was formed under 
MDES in the Digital Economy Promotion 
Agency (depa) with a mission to create 
a strategic plan to promote digital 
economy, research policy, indexes, 
monitoring, and to follow the progress 
of emerging digital technologies and 
innovations into the future. 
depa became the agency within MDES 
responsible for carrying forward the 
smart city torch and began coordination 
of a national Smart City Thailand 
framework in early-2019.
With this guiding body firmly established, 
the Smart City Thailand Office was 
launched within depa to execute the 
Smart City Master Plan, coordinate 
incentives, laws and regulations, 
measure impact of interventions, 
develop the necessary ecosystems 
and mechanisms for Public-Private 
Partnerships and infrastructure 
deployment, support city data platforms, 
and promote smart city research, 
development and innovation.
A new concept 
The concept of ‘smart city’ was first 
introduced in Thailand in 2003 by 
the then Ministry of Information and 
Communication Technology (MICT), 
however, it wasn’t until the launch of 
the Thailand 4.0 policy in 2016, and 
the 20-year National Strategy (2017-
2036) and 12th National Economic and 
Social Development Plan (2017-2021) 
when ‘smart city’ was firmly established 
as an important strategy for national 
development. In this light, ‘smart city’ in 
Thailand is still a new concept.
Thailand 4.0 & the 20-year National 
Strategy 
Thailand 4.0 is a national agenda and 
economic development model launched 
by the Office of the Prime Minister of 
Thailand which provides a countrywide 
focus on the use of advanced technology 
to push the country towards national 
‘security, prosperity, and sustainability’. 
Heavily influenced by Klaus Schwab’s, “The 
Fourth Industrial Revolution”, Thailand 
4.0 looks to move the country out of 
the middle-income trap by establishing 
new hotbeds for ‘S-curve’ industries 
like robotics, artificial intelligence, and 
biotechnology, with a particular emphasis 
on developing Thailand’s eastern 
seaboard, or the Eastern Economic 
Corridor (EEC) special economic zone. 
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
32

MINISTRY OF DIGITAL 
ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
Key Players in 
Smart City Thailand
MDES, formed in 2017, develops and 
promotes digital economy policy and 
is the primary ministry responsible 
for driving smart city implementation 
in Thailand. Key offices and agencies 
include:
• Office of the National Digital 
Economy and Society Commission 
(ONDE)
• Digital Economy Promotion Agency 
(depa)
• Smart City Thailand Office
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
MOE is in charge of national energy 
planning and generation, and 
alternative energy promotion to achieve 
sustainability and efficiency goals. Key 
offices and agencies include:
• Energy Policy and Planning Office 
(EPPO)
• Department of Alternative Energy 
Development & Efficiency (DEDE)
• Electricity Generating Authority of 
Thailand (EGAT)*
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
MOT is in charge of national 
transportation policy and planning 
with the mission of developing an 
integrated transport system for 
Bangkok and the nation. Key offices 
and agencies include:
• Office of Transport and Traffic 
Policy and Planning (OTP)
• State Railway of Thailand (SRT)*
• Mass Rapid Transit Authority of 
Thailand (MRTA)*
• Expressway Authority of Thailand 
(EXAT)*
• Bangkok Mass Transit Authority 
(BMTA)*
OFFICE OF THE PRIME 
MINISTER OF THAILAND
The Office of the Prime Minister of 
Thailand launched the Thailand 4.0 
national development policy, spurring 
the move towards the digital economy 
and bolstering smart city efforts. 
The Prime Minister and Deputy Prime 
Minister chair the National Economic & 
Social Development Council (NESDC), 
which is charged with national policy 
development, and the National Digital 
Economy & Society Committee. 
Key government ministries and agencies 
involved in smart city development 
report directly to the Committee, which 
manages the National Digital Economy 
& Society Fund that finances smart 
city related projects and other national 
digital transformation related projects. 
The board of the National Digital 
Economy & Society Fund consists of 
the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of 
MDES, Permanent Secretary of MDES, 
Director of the Office of National Digital 
Economy & Society (ONDE), the Minister 
of Finance, Budget Bureau Director, and 
three experts.
The creation of a thriving and robust 
smart city ecosystem requires 
collaboration amongst many different 
stakeholders. 
This section summarises the key 
players involved in Smart City Thailand. 
Further details for specific sector-based 
stakeholders will be outlined in the 
following chapter. 
KEY MINISTRIES, AGENCIES AND 
STATE-RUN ENTERPRISES
Three ministries have the responsibility of 
co-secretariat of the Smart City Thailand 
Steering Committee, and are leading the 
charge for smart city programmes under 
the supervision of the Deputy Prime 
Minister. Affiliated policy and planning 
departments within each ministry help 
shape the regulations, service priorities 
and funding for smart city initiatives. 
State-run enterprises (denoted with *) 
operate important services throughout 
the country, in particular, energy 
generation and distribution, water, waste, 
transportation, and telecommunications. 
Details for each can be found in the next 
chapter.
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
33

TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
OPERATORS
There are three major, privately run 
telecommunications operators, AIS, 
True Corp, and DTAC, with the lion’s 
share of the mobile market. CAT 
Telecom and Telecom of Thailand (TOT) 
are state-owned operators responsible 
for international infrastructure and 
fixed-line telephone, respectively.
SMART CITY THAILAND STEERING COMMITTEE
Established in 2018 and chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Ministers of 
Transport, Energy, and Digital Economy and Society, with broad representation 
from all other national ministries, as well as Eastern Economic Corridor Office 
(EECO). 
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
A number of trade association and 
business groups play an important 
role in the Thai smart city ecosystem, 
leading the charge on local market 
growth, standards development, and 
working closely with regulators and 
state-run operators.
Federation of Thai 
Industries
Thai Chamber of 
Commerce
Digital Council of 
Thailand
Electric Vehicle 
Association of Thailand
Thai IoT 
Association
CAT Telecom Public 
Company Ltd.
TOT Public Company Ltd.
Advanced Info Service 
Public Company Ltd.
True Corporation 
Public Company Ltd.
Total Access 
Communication Plc
Secretariat
President/CEO 
Digital Economy 
Promotion Agency
Deputy Prime Minister
Minister of Digital 
Economy and Society
Minister of Transport Minister of Energy
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Transport
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Digital Economy 
and Society
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Energy
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of 
Higher Education,
Science, Research & Innovation
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Interior
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Tourism
and Sports
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Public Health
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Education
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Natural 
Resources and Environment
Budget Director Secretary General
National Economic & Social
Development Council
Secretary General
Office of the National Broadcasting
and Telecommunications Commission
Secretary General
Office of the
Council of State
Secretary General
Eastern Economic
Corridor Office (EECO)
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Foreign
Affairs
Director General,
Department of Public
Works and Town &
Country Planning
Secretary General
Office of the
Board of
Investment
Secretary General
Office of Natural Resources
and Environmental Policy
and Planning
Professional Committee
Economic Affairs
Experts
Telecommunications
Experts
Social Affairs
Experts
Director
Office of Transport and Traffic 
Policy and Planning
Director
Energy Policy and Planning Office
*National committee members subject to change. Please refer to smartcitythailand.or.th 
for most recent updates.
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand34

Progress is being made to bolster 
smart city efforts In Thailand, however, 
there is still work to be done to ensure 
pioneering smart city projects align 
national level goals and actions with local 
needs. 
As stated in the introduction to this 
handbook, the most successful smart 
cities in the world focus their smart city 
programmes around local level needs 
and home-grown initiatives. These 
are made possible through support 
and collaboration with national level 
government, but top-down initiation 
must be met with strong bottom-up 
capacity. 
Though important reforms are 
underway, Thailand must continue to 
address major challenges in this regard. 
These challenges can be boiled down 
to a few key, interrelated points of 
tension in the central-local government 
relationship that often preclude cities 
being an effective partner in service 
delivery and smart city development:
Centralised bureaucracy 
Central government maintains a 
high-level of control over planning, 
budgeting and procurement at the local 
level. However, recent reforms have 
been made to better empower local 
authorities, and as implementation 
progresses, cities will find new 
opportunities in the smart city space.
Coordination difficulties 
A lack of coordination between and 
within some government departments 
can slow implementation of national level 
policy reforms at the local level. Smart 
city principles can lead to improved 
coordination and more effective and 
positive outcomes at the city, and even 
provincial level.
Limited local capacity 
Bangkok’s position as the major 
economic and cultural hub of the 
country has concentrated know-how in 
the nation’s capital, and overall capacity 
for urban planning and administration, 
as well as digital skill sets, are limited in 
some cities.
NATIONAL CHARTER FOR CITY DEVELOPMENT
In order for Thailand to achieve its 
national level development targets 
and smart city goals, city authorities 
and local actors can be further 
empowered through increased 
budgetary autonomy and improved 
know-how. 
This is not lost on smart city leaders 
as stated by depa Senior Executive 
Vice President, Dr. Passakon 
Prathombutr:
“Local agents of transformation 
in each city are needed to play a 
critical role in moving the cities 
toward becoming ‘smarter.’“
Fortunately, many local actors and 
private sector partners have been 
working to better plan and prepare 
for the smart cities of the future. 
City Development Corporations (CDC) 
are a new model of development 
partnership that has emerged in 
recent years, and is supported by 
national legislation allowing local 
authorities to partner with private 
enterprise in a new form of public-
private partnership.
CDCs can serve as a source of funding 
for projects, and help supplement local 
budgets. Nearly 20 such CDCs have been 
established throughout the country, 
most notably in Khon Kaen, Phuket and 
Chonburi, and are serving as a good 
entry point for those seeking to get 
involved in the smart city effort. 
Another important movement helping to 
organise smart city efforts is the National 
Charter. A recognised partner of depa, this 
group of urban planners, development 
professionals and design experts are 
working together with CDCs and local 
leaders to support better planning and 
partnerships for smart cities though public 
participation and best practice support, 
development of standards and indexing.
The National Charter operates on an 
MOU model, meaning it does not hold 
jurisdictional authority or directly influence 
budgetary decisions. However, the Charter 
is involved in an increasing number of 
studies and pilots throughout the country.
The Challenges of 
the Thai City
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 35

Data access and data quality are major challenges in 
Thailand for both the public and private sectors. Within 
government, a lack of inter-departmental cooperation 
and data sharing has historically led to inefficiencies, 
redundancies, and poor coordination in working towards 
holistic development outcomes. The Digital Government 
Development Agency (DGA) is taking aggressive steps to 
address this, and Bangkok and other cities have begun 
to pursue tangible measures towards establishing much-
needed data platforms that support the smart city.
The rise of increased data sharing and new business 
models within smart cities creates significant 
vulnerabilities and security issues, the risk of which has 
slowed growth in the smart city market. 
The Private Data Protection Act (PDPA) was recently 
enacted as a national effort to improve data security and 
data transparency, and the ongoing implementation of the 
PDPA moves to significantly reduce the risks associated 
with data protection and sharing. Enacted in late-2019, the 
Private Data Protection Commission is drafting guidelines 
and regulations to be ready for implementation in 2021 and 
2022.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Thailand’s Smart 
City Pillars
Thailand’s performance on numerous digital economy-
related indices shows that the country still has a way to go 
in terms of meeting its infrastructure goals, but there are 
some approaching milestones on the horizon in terms of 
infrastructure development.
In 2016, the government declared it was investing THB 
56bn (£1.44bn) to fund the expansion of broadband 
throughout the country, and MDES has plans to invest 
THB 3.76bn (£97.2m) in ICT related programmes over the 
next 20 years. The national broadband policy sets precise 
targets to have 95% of the population connected by 
2020, with cities and major centres linked with 100 Mbps-
minimum connections within 2020. 10 Initial 5G auctions 
(700 MHz) and regulatory sandbox projects were launched 
in 2019, with additional national and area specific licenses 
being auctioned in early 2020.
Recent years have also seen substantial investment into 
domestic data centres in preparation of the increased data 
demand for IoT connected devices and other cloud based 
services. By some estimates, it is believed Thailand will 
have 400m connected devices in 2020, with IoT spending 
approaching THB 32.43bn (£840.7m).
As discussed in our primer for smart 
city, every city should ideally have 
these four foundational pillars in 
place: smart infrastructure, open and 
secure data, sound urban governance, 
and strategies for supporting smart 
citizens. 
Smart City Thailand is one of the 
newest initiatives in the country, and 
thus the movement is still emerging. 
Thai Government is aware of the need 
to build out the necessary elements 
to form a comprehensive platform on 
which smart cities can be built. There 
has been progress in Thailand’s digital 
development, but much of it is just 
beginning to emerge.
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand36

The use of the Internet has steadily increased in recent 
years, and according to Statista, the number of Internet 
users in Thailand reached approximately 40.7 million 
people in 2018; and it is likely to grow to about 57.4 million 
people in 2023. Moreover, the Global Digital Report 2019, 
conducted by Hootsuite and global agency WeAreSocial, 
reported that there are 92 million mobile subscribers 
(of around 69 million population) accounting for 133% 
penetration, and 55 million active mobile internet users. 
Among those users, 49 million people are mobile social 
media users, accounted for 71% penetration.
Thais are connected, and increasingly so. However, 
according to the International Telecommunication Union 
(ITU), the major problem faced by many Thai households 
is not poor Internet accessibility, but rather access to 
computers and other hardware at home. Compared to 
countries around the world, only 21% of Thai households 
have computers, which is lower than the global average of 
49% and the developing countries’ average of 38%. 
The digital divide in Thailand is a problem that has 
detrimentally impacted poor households for a long time, 
and addressing this issues can help Thailand on its quest to 
truly become ‘smart’ in the years to come.
SMART CITIZENS
Thailand’s well documented organisational 
silos and tensions between central-local 
administrative units can have a markedly halting 
effect on the country’s smart city market. 
Corruption in government also remains a major 
issue for smart city development. 
In the Corruptions Perceptions Index 2019, 
Thailand ranked 101 out of 180 countries with a 
score of 36, where 0 is highly corrupt and 100 is 
very clean. Decision-making for new projects are 
influenced by longstanding procurement models 
which have documented cases of graft and 
bribery. An overhaul to the procurement process, 
including e-procurement models that encourage 
transparency and quality, can help encourage 
the growth of the smart city market. 
The Decentralization Act of 1999 was enacted 
to grant greater autonomy to local authorities 
and allow the central government to divest 
itself of many roles and responsibilities. While 
decentralisation was officially enacted since, 
actual reforms have yet to be fully realised. 
Responsibility of local service delivery, a 
URBAN GOVERNANCE
major area of focus in the smart city, is 
not always clearly demarcated, and many 
services are still controlled by the central 
government. This dynamic leads to difficulties 
for central government officers who are often 
overburdened with broad administrative duties 
and disconnected from local needs. Local 
authorities may have service responsibilities, but 
often lack capacity or resources to effectively 
deliver or improve processes. 
Last year, the New Urban Planning Act 2019 was 
enacted by the Ministry of Interior. This Act more 
formally transfers authority of local planning to 
local and provincial authorities and encourages 
more public participation in the planning 
process. Instead of province-wide comprehensive 
planning, the focus is shifted into the specific 
town planning at the neighbourhood and district 
scale. The implementation of this Act represents 
an important step in the right direction, and 
though the progress of decentralisation has been 
slow, the policies are in place to support better 
governance for smart city development.
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 37

Digital Economy 
Promotion Agency
The establishment of the Smart City 
Thailand office places depa at the 
centre of the smart city space in 
Thailand. However, as is shown by the 
broad representation in the Smart City 
Steering Committee, there are many 
players involved in the sector. 
Recognising this, depa is working hard to 
play the role of connector and facilitator 
amongst these many actors. 
How they are doing this, and how depa 
may aid you in developing the future of 
smart cities in Thailand is explored here.
Develop digital workforce through 
literacy and skill development.
Develop digital community through 
inclusiveness and inclusive technology 
accessibility.
Develop digital economy through the 
ability to use technology to enhance 
economic activities.
Generate digital ecosystem for 
aforementioned pillars to work 
sustainably.
WHAT DO THEY DO?
Development and promotion of the 
smart city sector is one of many 
responsibilities of depa, as it is the 
government agency responsible for the 
overall promotion of digital economy in 
Thailand. Officially, the broad mission 
of depa can be divided into the 4 pillars 
below.
In a practical sense, this means depa 
has a national agenda to build the 
digital capacity of the country through 
trainings, business matching, startup 
and business support, and ecosystem 
development. 
depa throughout the nation
7KH6PDUW&LW\7KDLODQG2̇FHLVORFDWHGDW
WKHGHSDFHQWUDOṘFHORFDWHGLQ%DQJNRNDQG
LVUHVSRQVLEOHIRUVHWWLQJWKHQDWLRQDOSROLF\
IUDPHZRUNDQGSURYLGLQJVXSSRUWWRFLWLHVDQG
EXVLQHVVHVDURXQGWKHFRXQWU\
$WWKHSURYLQFLDOOHYHOGHSDUHJLRQDOṘFHVDUH
UHVSRQVLEOHIRUVHWWLQJXSDSURYLQFLDOZRUNLQJ
FRPPLWWHHZKLFKLQFOXGHVVWDNHKROGHUVVXFKDV
WKHYLFHJRYHUQRUGHSDṘFLDOVORFDODFDGHPLD
DQGEXVLQHVVHVDQGFLWL]HQV5HJLRQDOṘFHV
DOVRGHYHORSVWUDWHJLFSODQVDWWKHSURYLQFLDO
OHYHODQGFROODERUDWHZLWKORFDOVWDNHKROGHUVWR
LPSOHPHQWWKHLUVPDUWFLW\LQLWLDWLYHV
GOVERNMENT BIG DATA INSTITUTE
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand38

Having only been founded in 2017, 
and the Smart City Thailand office 
itself being just over a year into its 
existence, depa and its mission are 
both young.
As the primary government sector 
agency charged with facilitating 
development of the smart city market 
in Thailand, depa is still seeking out 
new and innovative ways to engage 
with stakeholders, just as the market 
itself is still taking shape. 
With a growing sphere of influence 
and expertise related to smart cities, 
depa represents the one-stop-shop 
for both international and local 
partnerships. 
depa provides an active entry 
point into the market and can act 
as a first point of contact for any 
foreign companies and government 
organisations looking to explore 
market opportunities or engage 
in business in Thailand’s emerging 
smart city market. 
Get in touch: doss@depa.or.th
YOUNG & EMERGING
HUB
External 
Partners Private Sector
Central 
Government
City
Academia
POLICY
Rules and regulations 
DEMAND
Smart City Thailand 
Enrollment & 
Promotion 
(27 pilot cities)
SUPPLY
Startup incubation and 
SME matching
DEPA AND THE SMART CITY
As the leader of Smart City Thailand, depa takes a 
three-pronged approach to building and supporting a 
burgeoning smart city marketplace. 
It does this through three primary activities: 
• Policy, regulations and incentives development
• Demand generation through city enrollment in its 
Smart City Thailand promotion programme
• Supply matching through startup incubation and 
SME support.
DEPA AS THE CONNECTOR 
depa has positioned itself to be the connecting hub 
between the many stakeholders involved in smart city 
development. 
In a more mature smart city market, connections 
between various stakeholders will happen more 
organically, building off of an active ecosystem and 
strategic plan to drive forward service delivery and 
user-focused solutions. 
However, in Thailand where the smart city sector is 
still in its early state, depa aims to orchestrate these 
connections more deliberately and overtly in order to 
facilitate the growth of the Thailand market.
ASCN
British Embassy Bangkok
UK Prosperity Fund 
Global Future Cities 
Programme
Startup Accelerators
Smart Cities Alliance
UK Companies 
Regulators
National Ministries & 
Departments
State-run Enterprises
27 promoted cities 
in Smart City 
Thailand 
Universities
Research institutes
Regulatory support and system
Proof of concept (POC), pilots, &
Procurement support
integration capacity
knowledge transfer
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 39

Smart City 
Thailand
“A city that leverages technology, innovation, 
and good design to increase efficiency, 
cut costs, and innovate in relation to city 
management and service provision, with 
participation from all relevant stakeholders, 
in order to achieve citizen’s quality of life and 
happiness as well as sustainability.”
Types of Thai Smart Cities
depa recognises that each city has 
its own unique context, which is 
influenced by existing infrastructure, 
environment, social services, housing, 
recreational areas, and commercial 
resources. Additionally, each might 
be seeking to preserve and advance 
its existing culture, traditions, and 
identity. With this in mind, Smart City 
Thailand categorises Thai cities into 
two types:
Smart Livable City is an existing 
city with long-term residents. To be 
developed into Smart Livable City, it 
needs to incorporate and integrate 
technology and innovation as needed 
by its residents according to its own 
context. Bangkok, Chiangmai, and 
Phuket are prime examples.
Smart New City is a newly designated 
urban area with zero to sparse 
population to be developed into Smart 
New City with the use of technology 
and innovation as needed by its own 
contexts. Future cities named in the 
Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) 
project are prime 
examples.
In the lead up to the launch of the Smart 
City Thailand office in early-2019, and 
as part of its mission since, depa has 
consolidated best practices and expert 
advice to create a national framework 
and investment promotion programme 
for smart cities throughout the country. 
Smart City Thailand works with other 
national ministries and departments 
to coordinate incentives, laws and 
regulations impacting the deployment 
of smart city solutions, develop the 
necessary ecosystems and mechanisms 
for service innovation, testing, piloting 
and scalability, and supports smart 
city infrastructure development, with 
a major emphasis on open city data 
platforms.
SMART CITY ACCORDING TO DEPA
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand40

Smart city initiatives run the gamut 
and identifying which ones to begin 
with can be daunting. depa has 
categorised potential initiatives 
into seven smart city domains, 
each highlighting particular goals, 
objectives and example solutions for 
cities to consider while defining their 
vision and strategies. 
Determining which domains to focus 
on and how technology is to be 
deployed within each city or project 
scope is upto each programme 
applicant, though depa provides the 
following advice when crafting each 
city vision and roadmap:
Smart 
Environment
The Smart Environment domain aims to 
maintain the balance of nature and sustainable 
natural resource consumption through efficient 
administration and environmental management. 
Smart Environment is considered co-dependent 
on all other domains, which is why it is required 
for inclusion in any project enrolled in the Smart 
City Thailand programme.
Objectives and solutions include: Community 
waste management, compatible land usage, 
standardised water supply, smart waste 
management systems, primary water treatment 
systems and other related smart environment 
innovations.
Leadership: Ministry of Natural Resources and 
Environment
7 SMART CITY DOMAINS
“Smart City Thailand considers citizen 
participation as the most vital element 
of smart city promotion. We believe that 
a smart city is a collaborative task. In 
fact, when the public and private sectors 
work together, we can benefit from the 
accountability of the public sector and 
the incentive structure that drives the 
private sector to make smart city grow 
exponentially.” 
 - Dr. Non A., depa Senior Expert in Smart City Promotion
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 41

Smart Energy
Smart Energy includes a focus on energy 
consumption, energy generation, energy 
distribution, greenhouse gas reduction and 
smart grid system that decreases reliance on the 
traditional channels of energy distribution.
Objectives and possible solutions include: 
renewable energy, district cooling or district 
heating systems, smart metering systems, 
micro-grid systems and smart home/smart 
building systems.
Leadership: Ministry of Energy
This domain places attention on the accessibility 
to transportation networks and public transport 
systems, convenient use of public utilities and 
facilities of transportation including public 
transportation, efficient public transportation 
management, transportation safety and green 
mobility.
Objectives and solutions include: be the 
electric vehicle (EV) and charging station, smart 
parking system, traffic management and public 
transport application.
Leadership: Ministry of Transport
Smart living encompasses 3 guiding principles: 
1. Smart Health - Healthy people and 
promoting people’s hygiene, achieved through 
comprehensive healthcare services 
2. Public Safety & Security - Safety from 
crime, accidents and disaster by using 
surveillance systems, disaster prevention 
plans and proper design of physical urban 
development for disaster prevention 
3. Smart Built Environment - Smart 
living facilities, including hotel and tourism 
development, inclusive & universal urban design, 
and smart building management systems.
Leadership: Ministry of Interior
Smart Mobility
 Smart Living
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand42

This domain emphasises the knowledgeable 
and digital citizen, and an inclusive society and 
culture through the reduction of social inequality 
and creating an environment that is conducive to 
coexistence in society.
Objectives and solutions include: the 
dissemination of knowledge for life-long 
learning, access to digital technology 
and systems, digital libraries and digital 
encyclopedias, provision of creative space, 
maker space, urban living labs, co-working space 
and learning centres.
Leadership: Ministry of Digital Economy and 
Society
Smart governance focuses on government 
services efficiency and accessibility, stakeholder 
participation and transparency, and verifiable 
government policy and plans.
Objectives and solutions include: 
eGovernment, open government data, 
promotional plan for public participation, 
efficient and high-quality public services and 
concrete action plan.
Leadership: Office of the Prime Minister
This domain aims to promote the growth/
expansion of new businesses through digital 
systems that support business agility, business 
connectivity, business ecosystem development, 
and business innovation.
Objectives and solutions include: the 
development of digital infrastructure, local 
economic development, value-added creation 
from data storage and data analytics, and big 
data resulting from doing business in the area. 
Start-up support through incubation/innovation 
centres and test beds or ‘sandbox’ areas.
Leadership: Ministry of Finance
Smart People
 Smart Governance
 Smart Economy
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 43

ENROLLING IN SMART CITY THAILAND: SMART CITY THAILAND EVALUATION CRITERIA & PROCEDURES
To access incentives and support 
services, cities and projects must apply 
and enroll in the Smart City Thailand 
programme.
The application and evaluation process 
was determined by the Smart City 
Thailand Steering Committee. Five 
general criteria are considered when 
applying for the programme, and 
certain requirements must be met to be 
considered for enrollment
Requirements: 
1. Must be a public organisation; 
 
2. Or, must be a partnership between 
a public and private organisation 
registered in Thailand; and, 
3. Or, must be a private organisation 
registered in Thailand with a 
document of rights in the area with 
the project’s having been approved 
by a public hearing process.
Identify geographical boundary, Smart City type (Livable or New), and 
Smart City goals by Domain (Smart Economy, Smart Mobility, Smart 
Energy, Smart Environment, Smart Living, Smart Governance and 
Smart People). Applicants must include at least two Domains -- but 
MUST include Smart Environment.
Formulate an infrastructural development and investment plan for 
both digital and basic infrastructure such as transportation, energy, 
and public services.
Design a data storing and management strategy (i.e., City Data 
Platform), as well as cybersecurity strategy for the city and its 
residents
Build urban systems, activities and projects, strategies and guidelines 
in accordance with the proposed type of Smart City, encompassing 
both the mandatory and other services as appropriate.
Creating a management model and process of public participation 
incubation for a sustainable operation.
DEFINE 
VISION OF 
THE AREA
1
INFRASTRUCTURE 
DEVELOPMENT
2
DATA 
PLATFORM/ 
SECURITY
3
SOLUTIONS
4
SUSTAINABILITY 
MODEL
5
Application Process: 
 
1. Register through the Smart City 
Thailand Office website (https://
smartcitythailand.or.th/)
2. Smart City Thailand Office screens 
proposals and verifies qualifications
3. Smart City Sub-Commitee evaluates 
project feasibility and assigns to 
domain specific committees
4. 7 Smart Domain Committees evaluate 
proposals
5. Smart City Sub-Committee forwards 
results to Smart City Steering 
Committee
6. Smart City Steering Committee 
responds to applicant with response; 
Applicant recieves access to Smart City 
Thailand logo
7. Project owners submit progress reports 
every 6 months for evaluation by Smart 
City Thailand Office
8. Project owners apply for benefits 
including: legal and regulatory benefits, 
infrastructural fast-tracking, and 
financial support.
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand44

SMART CITY PROMOTION
1. Project must develop, install, and 
provide any one or more proper 
aspects of smart city system 
services as stipulated by the 
Board, for example, Smart Mobility, 
Smart People, Smart Living, Smart 
Economy, Smart Governance, Smart 
Energy, and Smart Environment, 
etc.
2. Project must be a part of Smart City 
Development Project approved by 
the Board or agencies responsible 
for the smart city development only.
3. Rights and Privileges:
4. In case the project is a part of 
Smart City Area Development 
Project that provides all 7 smart 
systems.
 Incentives A2
5. In case the project is a part of 
Smart City Area Development 
Project that provides some of the 7 
smart systems. Incentives A3
6. If the project is located in EEC 
area, it is eligible for a 50 percent 
corporate income tax deduction for 
5 years from the date on which the 
corporate income tax exemption 
period expires.
Incentive A2: Infrastructure activities 
for the country’s development, activities 
using advanced technology to create 
value-added, with no or very few 
existing investments in Thailand.
Incentives: Exemption of corporate 
income tax for 8 years, Exemption of 
import duties on machinery, Exemption 
of import duties on raw materials used 
in production for export and Non-Tax 
Incentive.
Incentive A3: High technology activities 
which are important to the development 
of the country, with a few investments. 
Incentives: Exemption of corporate 
income tax for 5 years, Exemption of 
import duties on machinery, Exemption 
of import duties on raw materials used 
in production for export already existing 
in Thailand. Exemption of corporate 
income tax for 8 years, Exemption of 
import duties on machinery, Exemption 
of import duties on raw materials used 
in production for export and Non-Tax 
Incentive.
Board of Investment 
Smart City Incentives
The Office of the Board of Investment 
(BOI) offers various tax incentives and 
investment support mechanisms to 
parties interested in investing in Smart 
City Thailand approved projects. 
It has the investment promotion policies 
to:
• Promote investment that helps 
enhance national competitiveness by 
encouraging R&D, innovation, value 
creation in the agricultural, industrial 
and services sectors, SMEs, fair 
competition, and reduce social and 
economic disparity.
• Promote activities that are 
environmently-friendly, save energy 
or use alternative energy to drive 
balanced and sustainable growth.
If these incentives are fully utilised, 
these incentives have the potential 
to simultaneously provide significant 
environmental protections and economic 
benefit, nudging Thailand towards 
becoming even more environmentally 
sustainable.
SMART CITY BENEFITS
Cities and projects that are approved 
through the Smart City Thailand Office 
gain access to several benefits and 
funding instruments available through 
MDES and BOI (outlined to the right).
Legal and Regulatory Benefits:
• Access to regulatory sandbox 
environments offered through 
relevant agencies and partners
• Smart Visa availability for foreign 
investors or experts
Infrastructural Benefits:
• Fast-track benefits in basic 
infrastructural development in 
digital technology, transport and 
energy
Financial Support Mechanisms:
• Digital Transformation Fund
• Digital Manpower Fund
• Digital Startup Fund
• Digital Smart City Research Fund
• Smart City Infrastructure Fund
• Tax exemptions
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 45

Smart City Thailand 
Roadmap
1
2
3
4
5 6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
Bangkok Metropolitan Area
Eastern Economic Corridor 
7 Pilot Cities
Chachoengsao
Chonburi
Rayong
Bangkok
Phuket
Chiang Mai
Khon Kaen
In late-2018, the first batch of Smart City 
Thailand pilot cities were introduced into 
the programme - Phuket, Chiang Mai, Khon 
Kaen, Chachoengsao, Chonburi, Rayong 
and Bangkok - which are shown on the 
map to the right. The ongoing activities in 
these cities will be covered in greater detail 
throughout the remainder the handbook, 
with a special emphasis on Bangkok. 
However, these seven cities were just 
the beginning of the Smart City Thailand 
roadmap. The national Smart City 
Master Plan has set targets for additional 
enrollment in the programme and both 
national and international goals for service 
deployments and achievements.
In 2019-2020, they aim to enroll 24+ 
designated provinces and 30+ areas, and 
during the period of 2020-2022 they hope 
to expand the scope of Thailand Smart City 
Development Plan through the application 
channel to encompass Smart City services 
and City Data Platforms in all 76 provinces 
and Bangkok, and to have at least three 
globally-recognised smart cities.
As of October 2020, forty Thai cities, 
municipalities, areas and industrial estates 
have been accepted into Smart City 
Thailand with proposals including public 
and private sector stakeholders, private 
citizens, and local academic institutions. 
Smart City Thailand Pilot Cities & Targets
2018
1. Phuket
2. Chiang Mai
3. Khon Kaen
4. Chachoengsao
5. Chonburi
6. Rayong
7. Bangkok
2019
1. Chiang Rai
2. Nan
3. Pitsanulok
4. Nong Khai
5. Udon Thani
6. Nakhon Phanom
7. Mukdahan
8. Ubon Ratchathani
9. Ranong
10. Phang-Nga
11. Krabi
12. Nakhon Si Thammarat
13. Satun
14. Songkhla
15. Pattani
16. Yala
17. Narathiwat
2020
60 cities in 30 provinces
2022
100 cities in 76 provinces 
+ Bangkok
Under the 12th National Economic and 
Social Development Plan, the EEC is 
promoted as the future showcase of smart 
city development in Thailand, particularly 
for New City (Green Field) development 
along a planned high-speed rail. 
EASTERN ECONOMIC CORRIDOR (EEC) - THE FLAGSHIP
The EEC Office offers special 
investment incentives within promoted 
industrial zones and future designated 
transit-oriented development (TOD) 
areas. For an overview of ongoing and 
planned projects in EEC, please refer 
to page 152 in the handbook.
Chapter 2: Smart Cities in Thailand | Smart City Handbook: Thailand46

7KHODVWGHFDGHRIHYHQWV±SROLWLFDOUHRUJDQLVDWLRQ
QHZWHFKQRORJ\DGRSWLRQJURZLQJQXPEHURI
JOREDOO\DZDUHFLWL]HQVDQGPRUH±KDYHSXWFLWLHVDW
WKHFHQWUHRIQDWLRQDOSODQV
7KDLFLWLHVDUHVWHDGLO\EHLQJSODQQHGWRKHOSDGGUHVV
WKHQHHGVRIWKHFRXQWU\DQGVRFLHW\%HFRPLQJ
VPDUWHULVDXQLYHUVDOJRDOEXWHDFKFLW\¶VURDGPDS
ZLOOEHGL̆HUHQWDQGVKRXOGWDNHWKHWLPHWRFULWLFDOO\
DVVHVVKRZVPDUWFLW\VROXWLRQVFDQ¿WWKHLUQHHGV

Chapter 3
Bangkok Smart City
Deep Dive
The previous chapters discussed the theories behind smart 
cities and showed how both the UK and Thailand approach 
the sector. This chapter shows what is happening on the 
ground, using Bangkok as a case study to understand 
the major challenges facing the nation’s capital, and how 
smart city solutions can bring about a more sustainable, 
prosperous and livable place for the many that call this 
city home.

Bangkok, Thailand
Bangkok is Thailand’s capital, and by far the largest city 
in the country, with a population of more than 10 million 
people. While the city is equipped with an expanding, 
modern network of infrastructure, Bangkok is nowhere 
near the level of advancement of Tokyo, Singapore, or 
Seoul in terms of ICT and public services. The regional 
hub of Southeast Asia, Bangkok is a magnet for 
tourists and foreign expats, and is home to a growing 
technology sector. Its vibrant and attractive urban 
centre is well plugged-in to global networks, and is full 
of immense opportunities for the smart city sector.
World’s most primate city 
Bangkok has earned the double-edged distinction of 
the world’s most primate city, as it is disproportionately 
the largest city in the urban hierarchy of Thailand, and 
an estimated thirty-five times larger than the second 
largest city in the country, Nakhon Ratchasima (Korat). 
For decades, Bangkok’s unique position as the national 
capital and economic engine of Thailand has drawn 
people from around the country and region. This is a 
trend that continues to this day.
This urban primacy means Bangkok receives an over 
abundance of attention from the central government, 
and a higher resource allocation than any other Thai 
city. However, like in other rapidly urbanised megacities 
around the world, inadequate urban planning has led 
to haphazard development outcomes, a unstainable 
patterns of expansion, and many service provision 
challenges.
These longstanding issues have led many in the Thai 
development community to look to smart city solutions 
for an answer.
People of Bangkok 
Bangkokians account for 15% of the country’s 
population, and the city contains most of Thai society’s 
upper and middle class. The city’s education system 
is the most robust in the nation. Digital penetration 
statistics of Thailand offers a conservative view on how 
plugged in Bangkokians might be. The Global Digital 
Report 2020 approximates 75% of Thais having access 
to the internet and 95% using smartphones to go 
online. Thais spend a whopping average of 9 hours per 
day on the internet (5th in the world). Thais increasingly 
use the internet to consume, with 82% of users stating 
they bought something online in January 2020. 
While this may seem impressive, it does not necessarily 
reflect usage quality. Bangkok ranks low on the KPMG’s 
Technology Innovation Hub Survey 2020, indicating 
that Bangkokians are not fully taking advantage of 
digital accessibility to create products and services. 
ICT infrastructure and data in Bangkok 
Living in Bangkok is convenient, with basic needs 
being met and augmented by modern infrastructure. 
In particular, digital infrastructure is improving – the 
national average fixed internet connection speed 
stands at 125 Mbps (10th in the world). 100% of mobile 
connections are broadband (2G, 4G and 5G). However, 
there is much room for improvement. Mobile download 
speed is at an average of 26 Mbps (34th in the world). 
5G implementation is underway and should further 
improve mobile internet access. For data, Thailand is 
ranked 51st by the Global Open Data Index (GODI), an 
independent assessment of open government data 
publication from a civic perspective. More work is to be 
done in delivering quality data to the general public. 
Population: 
10,539,415
Area: 
1,568 km2
Average fixed 
internet speed: 
125 Mbps
Data openness:
51st 
Mastercard Global 
Destination 
Ranking: 1st
IMD Smart City 
Index: 75th
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand50

The BMA is a special administrative area led by an elected 
Governor who serves a four-year term, and the elected 
Bangkok Metropolitan Council. The Governor and his 
team are responsible for policy formulation, supervision 
and control of all functions undertaken by the permanent 
Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration (BMA)
AMBITIONS TO BECOME A SMART CITY 
The local authority responsible for city management in 
Bangkok is the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration 
(BMA). Though there are a wide range of stakeholders 
involved in service provision and asset management 
(more on this in the following sections), as the local 
authority, BMA is best suited to act as facilitator 
for citywide smart city programmes, and is the key 
stakeholder involved in the city’s strategic planning. 
Currently, Bangkok does not have a comprehensive 
smart city strategy, though the BMA has declared its 
ambitions of Bangkok becoming a smart city by 2032, 
and it is expected to develop a formal Smart City 
Masterplan in the near future. At present, the BMA 
has taken the important first step of tying its broader 
city development goals to the smart city concept by 
integrating its current 20-year development plan (2013-
2032) with the Smart City Thailand framework, as seen 
to the right.
BMA AS SMART CITY ADMINISTRATOR
government officers headed by the centrally appointed 
Permanent Secretary for the BMA. The Council is the 
local legislative body responsible for making local laws, 
ordinances and regulations, as well as approving and 
allocating the BMA’s annual budget. 
The BMA is divided into 16 Departments and 50 
district offices. Departments are responsible for 
planning management, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation, whereas the District Offices operate field 
work and some local service provision.
BMA 20-year Development Plan (2013-2032) mapped to the Smart City Thailand Domains
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 51

AREA-BASED OPPORTUNITY 
Though currently lacking a 
comprehensive strategy to drive its 
smart city projects, the BMA has 
partnered on a number of projects 
and initiatives with the hope of further 
stimulating investment into smart 
districts and area-based development in 
Bangkok.
Smart City Thailand 
There are two projects in Bangkok 
currently seeking approval into the 
Smart City Thailand programme. Most 
notable is the area surrounding a new 
national transport hub called Bang Sue 
Grand Station (see pg. 140 for more 
information), which is, at present, the 
most substantial public infrastructure 
development project in Bangkok. 
The adjacent Phahon Yothin 
Smart District is a transit-oriented 
development (TOD) project with support 
from BMA. The Thai government will 
spend THB 40 billion to develop a ‘smart 
city’ in the Phahon Yothin district of 
Bangkok that is slated to be completed 
within three years. 
Another project receiving substantial 
attention from BMA, and support from 
Smart City Thailand, is the
 Rama IV Smart 
District (see pg. 143 for more information). 
Together with a coalition that includes 
some of the most prominent private 
property developers in Thailand, as well 
as Chulalongkorn University and the 
Mass Rapit Transit Authority of Thailand 
(MRTA), the BMA plans to invest THB 15 
billion to enhance the approximately 9km 
stretch of the Rama IV corridor. 
The improvements will stretch from the 
historic Hua Lamphong Train Station 
to the Kluay Nam Thai area of Khlong 
Toei. This investment focuses on 
improving mobility and walkability along 
the corridor, connecting some of the 
central city’s most high-profile private 
developments.
National Innovation Agency Innovation 
Districts 
The BMA has partnered with the National 
Innovation Agency (NIA) to designate 
pilot areas for eight “Innovation 
Districts” throughout Bangkok. 
Each district aims to leverage existing 
assets and technology to create new 
value and economic opportunity through 
research, knowledge exchange, and 
innovation acceleration (locations and 
details can be found on the next page).
The BMA has partnered with 
the UK Foreign, Commonwealth 
and Development Office’s 
Prosperity Fund Global Future 
Cities Programme (GFCP) on three 
activities: (1) an Integrated Data 
Hub, (2) a Decision Support System 
(DSS) for Flood Management, and 
(3) a Transit-oriented Development 
(TOD) Plan for Khlong Bang Luang. 
This ongoing collaboration has 
connected UK companies with 
expertise in urban management and 
smart city development to aid BMA 
in meeting their development goals, 
and the strategic partnership seeks 
to promote further cooperation 
with companies and organisations 
from the UK offering smart city 
consultancies, knowledge transfer, 
and technical assistance.
Website: www.gov.uk/world/
organisations/british-embassy-bangkok 
Contact: Info.Bangkok@fcdo.gov.uk
PROSPERITY FUND 
FUTURE CITIES & THE BMA
Bangkok Charter 
BMA has partnered with the National 
Charter Network, led by the Thai Town 
Planning Association and the Science 
Promotion Board for Research and 
Innovation, to draft a Bangkok Charter. 
The Charter itself is divided into five 
area-based sub-charters, including the 
Asoke-Rama IX Charter, Rattanakosin 
Charter, Bang Wa Charter, Tao Pun - 
Bang Po Charter and Bang Khun Thian 
Charter (locations can be found on the 
next page).
Similar to their work around the country, 
these National Charter-led projects aim 
to bring together relevant stakeholders 
throughout the city to establish shared 
goals, action plans and investment 
promotion for city management, 
green growth, mobility, housing and 
applications of smart city solutions.
In late 2020, Rattanakosin Charter will 
be joining a national initiative called 
Smart City Charter that will involve 14 
locations around the country making 
streetscape improvements and installing 
smart street poles.
LEARN MORE
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand52

Khlong San Innovation 
District: 
• Food & Tech
Rattanakosin Innovation 
District: 
• Creative Cultural 
District & Green City
Yothi Medical Innovation 
District: 
• Medical & Government 
Research
Pathumwan-Siam Central 
Innovation District:
• Fintech, Food & 
Lifestyle
Asoke - Rama IX Charter
Rattanakosin Charter
Bang Wa Charter
Tao Pun - Bang Po Charter
Bang Khun Thian Charter
Phahon Yothin Smart 
District - Bang Sue Grand 
Station
Rama IV Smart District
Khlong Bang Luang - Bang Wa TOD Plan
er
r
Smart City Thailand
National Charter - Bangkok Charter
UK Prosperity Fund Global Future Cities Programme
NIA Innovation Districts
1
2
Lat Krabang Innovation 
District: 
• Culture, Logistics & 
Transportation
Kluaynamthai Innovation 
District: 
• New Media, Logistics & 
Industry
Punnawithi Innovation 
District: 
• Robotics & Cloud 
Technology
Bang Sue Transportation
Innovation District: 
• Intelligent 
Transporation Systems
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
5
1
2
3
4
1
BMA Involved Smart City Area-based Projects
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 53

Though Bangkok is making progress, 
recent studies show that Bangkok is well 
behind world leaders when it comes to 
common smart city indicators. 
The 2019 Cities in Motion Index (CIMI), 
conducted by IESE Business School, 
grades Bangkok close to last in 
governance, environment, mobility 
and human capital. 
This is supported by the most recent 
Smart City Index (SCI) conducted 
by IMD and Singapore University for 
Technology and Design, in which city 
residents stated that air pollution, 
road congestion, corruption, security 
and public transport were their top 
five most urgent priorities for the city, 
respectively. Waste management and a 
growing demand for electricity are also 
major challenges facing the city. 
Faced with addressing these challenges, 
those working in Bangkok have a difficult 
task ahead of them. More details on 
these challenges will be shared in the 
remaining pages, as well as some of the 
possible smart city solutions.
Barriers to 
Becoming Smart

Despite these setbacks, Bangkok 
remains a city with vast potential, and 
there is a growing awareness that 
smart technologies have an important 
role to play in supporting the city in 
overcoming its challenges, as well as 
helping Bangkokians achieve a higher 
quality of life. 
Large scale investments into mass 
transit aim to curb congestion and air 
pollution issues, and a robust business 
and academic sector is driving research 
and development in related fields. 
Regulatory sandboxes are promoting 
new pilots in energy and mobility, 
and many new built projects rival 
international buildings in terms of green 
design and energy efficiency.
While Bangkok faces a number of major 
challenges in building a truly mature 
smart city market, there are a wide 
variety of opportunities that can be 
taken advantage of in the short term to 
help move Thailand towards a stronger 
foundation of success.
Subject matter experts or organisations 
from the UK will find that there is much 
appetite for assistance in work that will 
prime Thai cities for advancement.
INTEGRATED DATA AS A GOAL 
Thailand has declared its aim to promote 
open-data in government to provide better 
services to citizens and businesses. Before 
providing effective open-data to citizens, 
inter-governmental data sharing standards 
and practice need to be instilled.
World leaders in the smart city sector are 
finding innovative ways to integrate public 
(and sometimes private) data residing in 
different sources that can significantly 
improve decision-making processes 
and outcomes. In the process, they are 
also building a culture of trust through 
transparency and accountability.
Thailand can learn from these cities, many 
of which reside in the UK, by making 
a concerted effort to improve data 
outcomes, initiating open data policies and 
organisations, and placing and developing 
people with data management capabilities 
within every department of government.
CONSULTATION AND ADVISORY TO 
GOVERNMENT 
Bangkok represents a hotbed of 
opportunities for consultation and 
advisory work with both central and 
local government, from policy and 
strategic advising, to procurement 
and regulatory reform, to technology 
system design and integration, that can 
help Thailand develop the local skills 
and expertise needed to drive the smart 
city of the future.
One such example is transit oriented 
development (TOD) - a holistic 
approach to area-based planning that 
links transport to the wider-issues of 
land use, housing, green space, and 
local economic development - has the 
potential to ease traffic congestion, 
enhance connectivity in the city, and 
drive a more inclusive and sustainable 
model of development. 
INDEPENDENT PRIVATE PROJECTS 
The private sector, in particular many 
of the private real estate development 
companies, have invested in innovations 
in construction management, building 
information modeling (BIM) and urban 
data analytics. 
Numerous research centres have been 
established in Bangkok and elsewhere 
to push forward development of 
technologies and initiatives that would 
support better urban management 
practices. There are major investments 
being made within the private sector 
that include smart city related 
technologies and programmes. These 
area-based projects are highlighted in a 
later section of the Handbook (see pg. 
139).
Partnering directly with these private 
companies is likely the easiest way to 
enter Thailand’s smart city market today.
THE BMA’S 
INTEGRATED DATA HUB
BMA’s partnership with the Global Future 
Cities Programme to develop an Integrated 
Data Hub (IDH) is a major step towards 
addressing the lack of cross-departmental 
cooperation and enhancing integrated 
planning and responses to urban challenges.
The Prosperity Fund’s Global Future Cities 
Programme, who is currently assisting the 
BMA in a TOD planning project in Khlong 
Bang Luang, provides a model for other 
areas of Bangkok and Thai cities to learn 
from. 
PaveGen, a UK-based developer of an off-
grid technology that converts the kinetic 
energy from footsteps into electricity, had its 
first installation in Thailand in a partnership 
with True Digital Park.
KHLONG BANG LUANG 
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEV
PAVEGEN STEPS INTO 
TRUE DIGITAL PARK
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
55

SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY SERVICE OVERVIEW
SMART ENVIRONMENT 
Smart Water Metering & Monitoring Real-time water consumption tracking and 
wastewater discharge monitoring
Smart Waste Management Real-time waste level monitoring and smart routing 
for improved waste collection
SMART ENERGY
Smart Electricity Metering Real-time electricity consumption tracking for 
consumption management 
Electric Vehicle Charging Networks EV charging network design and management
Peer-to-Peer Energy Trading Distributed energy trading platform design and 
management
SMART MOBILITY
Intelligent Traffic Control Systems Integrated traffic data collection and analysis for 
real-time traffic management
Smart Public Transport Integrated public transportation platform with 
single-payment system and trip management
SMART LIVING
Smart Disaster Management System Integrated network of environmental sensors to 
monitor and predict disaster events
Bangkok Smart City 
Service Priorities
The remainder of this chapter will lay out in greater 
detail the major challenges facing Thailand’s capital 
within each of the seven Smart City Thailand domains, 
and some key service priorities to address them, 
highlighting examples of ongoing projects where they 
exist. 
The chapter will also provide highlights of how UK 
companies and public organisations have assisted 
cities around the world to achieve their smart city 
development goals. 
Most importantly, it will outline critical opportunities 
for partnerships to deploy smart technologies for 
the betterment of Bangkok citizens and visitors. The 
following table provides is a summary of the deep-dive 
into Bangkok’s smart city service priorities. 
Following the overview of each Smart City Domain 
will be a high-level look at some of the privately 
driven mega development projects utilising smart city 
concepts within the city.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand56

SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY SERVICE OVERVIEW
SMART LIVING 
Smart Building Design Integration of technology and sustainable design 
techniques to optimise building performance
Integrated Health Information System Standardised system for coordination and sharing of 
information between patients and healthcare providers
SMART PEOPLE
Education Technology (EdTech) Digital education platforms for course development 
and life long learning support
Higher Education Partnerships Research and educational partnerships for digital 
skill development and smart city innovation
SMART GOVERNANCE
Integrated Data Hub Government data centre for cross-departmental 
coordination and improved decision making
Open Data Platform Citywide open data centre for citizen services and 
improved government transparency
SMART ECONOMY
Smart City Innovation Hub Business ecosystem development for smart city 
innovation and solution commercialisation support
High Skill Worker Development Technical training and workforce development 
programmes for digital economy related skills
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 57

The following section focuses on three essential 
environmental services in our cities: air quality, water 
management, and waste management. It identifies a 
number of the key technologies needed to better manage 
and monitor these vital resources and services and 
explains the ecosystem of stakeholders involved in the 
domain.
Smart Environment

Addressing environmental issues requires collective 
understanding and action, which is why data about the air, 
water and waste in our cities is most effective when presented 
through an integrated citywide data management platform. 
A central geographic information system (GIS) is key in this 
regard, as it helps coordinate route planning, infrastructure 
locations, and track current and future problems. Expanding 
this central hub to include weather data allows for planning 
agencies, businesses and citizens to achieve near full 
situational awareness in their dealings with the environment. 
Though in some cases water utilities and waste management 
are operated by private entities, data sharing and transparency 
is critical in enabling cities and their residents to understand, 
plan and act on resource management strategies. 
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Improving smart environment outcomes starts with 
installing sensors and other monitoring devices to collect the 
information needed to map, measure, and understand the 
current situation. We can install household water meters to 
track our water use and help customers improve their habits. 
Leak detection sensors help identify water loss in the system 
and lead to more effective repairs. Water and air quality 
monitors collect valuable information to support better 
decision making and alert residents to hazards in real-time. 
By connecting our solid waste collection systems, sensors can 
measure waste levels in collection areas and alert collectors 
for more efficient route planning, improving waste pick-up 
rates while also saving on fuel costs and reducing carbon 
emissions in our neighborhoods. 
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
People in our cities interact with environmental services 
each and every day, which means they must be engaged 
and involved members of any solution that attempts to 
change the existing systems. Waste management programs 
may include the adoption of new technologies for collecting 
and treating our garbage, but if the general public doesn’t 
understand or care about sorting garbage in their homes, the 
whole system may breakdown. The same can be said about 
water and air pollution. This means that while know-how of 
the smart technologies involved in smart environment are 
crucial, just as important are knowledge and skills about 
the environmental sciences and how our cities relate to the 
critical ecosystems they rely on.
SMART CITIZENS
When we discuss the issues of water, waste, wastewater, and 
air quality, we are discussing environmental services essential 
to our everyday lives. They touch on every sector of society. 
Planning improvements to our infrastructure and management 
systems for environmental services are heavily influenced by 
government policies and regulations, as they often dictate 
how we use water, who collects our waste, and the level of 
pollutants that are allowed to enter our air. The private sector 
has an important role to play in smart environment, and can be 
innovators to legacy systems through new business models like 
software-as-a-service (SaaS) or risk-sharing contracts, but this 
requires the traditional players in government to pursue new 
partners with the necessary ICT know-how to help them meet 
the challenges of the future.
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart Environment
If the world is going to mitigate 
climate change and meet the long list 
of environmental challenges we are 
currently facing, we are going to need 
the smart city. Cities use two-thirds of 
the world’s energy and generate three-
fourths of the world’s CO2 emissions, 
and due to rapid urbanisation and aging 
infrastructure, cities are struggling to 
manage the needs of their residents 
when it comes to air, water, and waste. 
Smart environment is about utilising 
smart technologies to manage 
our resources more economically 
and sustainably, and care for the 
environment we all depend on to live 
healthy, resilient lives. 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 59

Smart Environment 
in Bangkok
Thailand has set some ambitious 
environmental targets under its current 
Environmental Quality Management 
Plan (2017-2021). By virtue of being 
Thailand’s biggest city, Bangkok is also 
the biggest producer of pollutants and 
waste, and biggest consumer of water. 
Tackling these issues has been given 
critical importance at the national 
level, but implementation of any smart, 
sustainable solutions within Bangkok 
are still at their early stages.
AIR QUALITY 
Though many Bangkok residents would 
be surprised to hear it, air quality 
in Bangkok has improved by some 
measures over the past two decades. 
Due to improved fuel standards, some 
harmful pollutants such as sulphur 
dioxide (SO
2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 
are now at safe levels.
However, recent years have seen 
increasingly high concentrations of 
particulate matter, both PM10 and 
PM2.5, and air pollution remains 
the number one concern of many 
Bangkokians (SCI, 2019). 
According to the latest data available 
for the city, the transport sector 
accounts for around 50% of the city’s 
particulate related emissions, and this is 
one reason the expansion of Bangkok’s 
public transport has been made a 
priority.
More advanced air quality monitoring 
together with data analytics would be 
beneficial to the city, though pollution 
sources are already well understood. 
Solutions to Bangkok’s air quality 
have more to do with reducing auto 
emissions through improving standards 
and alternative mobility options. 
WASTE 
Water is a major issue in cities all 
around Thailand, and Bangkok is no 
different. The two main sources of 
water supply in Bangkok are the Chao 
Phraya River and the Tha Chin River, 
and according to the Metropolitan 
Waterworks Authority (MWA), all 
registered residents of Bangkok have 
access to clean water, though many 
unregistered households still lack 
proper access to the metropolitan water 
supply. Overall water consumption is 
relatively high compared to other cities 
in the region, at around 440 litres per 
day (ADB, 2013), and water tariffs are in 
major need of reform, having remained 
unchanged since 1999.
The issues in water cover various 
dimensions, though of particular 
challenge in Bangkok are non-
revenue water (NRW) and wastewater 
management. 
Though numbers have decreased 
from around 40% in 2000, it is still 
estimated that more than 26% of water 
in the Bangkok system is lost due to 
water leaks and improper metering 
(BMA, 2014). This leads to significant 
losses for MWA, and unnecessary 
depletion of freshwater sources. 
Wastewater management is an even 
more significant problem, however. 
According to recent figures from the 
68% of Bangkokians say air 
pollution is their number one 
concern
26% of water in Bangkok is lost 
due to water leaks and improper 
metering
Only 46% of wastewater in 
Bangkok is treated
ring
26%
 46%
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand60

BMA, 2.48 million m3 of wastewater 
are generated every day in the city, 
but only 1.136 million m
3 are treated. 
This means only 46% of wastewater 
generated in Bangkok is treated, with 
large amounts of untreated wastewater 
being discharged into grounds, rivers, 
canals or the sea. 
The BMA’s Department of Drainage and 
Sewerage is in charge of wastewater 
treatment, and has implemented 
a monitoring system to measure 
flooding, flow, canal and river levels, 
and precipitation. However, wastewater 
treatment is currently provided at 
no charge, and substantial reform in 
the way wastewater is measured and 
treated is a major opportunity within 
the smart environment.
WASTE 
Solid waste management is an issue 
plaguing every city in Thailand, and 
is a focus of every city’s smart city 
strategies. In 2016, the government 
adopted the Solid Waste Management 
Master Plan which aims to promote 
more sustainable waste management 
and power generation from waste-to-
energy technologies. It set the target 
of 75% of municipal solid waste to 
be properly managed, and 100% of 
hazardous industrial and infectious 
waste.
The Plastic Waste Management 
Roadmap 2030 calls for 100% of 
plastic waste to be recycled by 2027, 
and government, together with private 
sector partners, have begun to take 
aggressive action in reducing plastics 
use in the nation’s capital. 
However, this will be no easy task. 
In 2016, around 27 million tonnes of 
municipal waste, or around 74,000 
tonnes per day, were generated 
nationwide, an approximate 80% 
increase since 2010 (PCD, 2017). Of that, 
Bangkok accounts for nearly 16% of the 
country’s municipal waste, producing 
more than 10,000 tonnes a day. Much of 
the nation’s solid waste is not collected, 
and even less is treated properly. Waste 
is a major challenge in Thailand.
Of the 4.85 million tonnes of solid 
waste produced by Bangkok every year, 
less than 1 million tonnes are recycled 
(2018), though these numbers are hard 
to measure as they are not part of the 
municipal collection process. 
There is vast potential for investment 
into waste-to-energy, plastic waste 
recycling and reuse, and overall waste 
reduction and management strategies. 
However, in order to realise this 
potential, there must be better sorting 
at source, as well as increased public 
awareness and education around solid 
waste management. 
10,000 tonnes - The 
amount of municipal 
waste Bangkokians 
produce each day 
Approximately 21% of Bangkok’s 
waste is recycled or composted
Bangkok produces 
16% of Thailand’s 
municipal waste, 
4.85 million tonnes 
per year
tonnes
10,000
21%
4.85
million
tonnes
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 61

MINISTRY OF NATURAL 
RESOURCES AND 
ENVIRONMENT
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Thailand’s environmental policies and 
regulations are made by the Ministry of 
Natural Resources and Environment 
(MNRE), including for air and water 
pollution, as well as solid waste 
management.
When it comes to implementation, much 
is left to local authorities, which often 
leads to issues of coordination among 
the many government agencies and 
private sector.
The Ministry of Interior’s (MOI) 
Department of Public Works & Town 
Planning regulates areas used for waste 
disposal and administers finances 
to local authorities responsible for 
service delivery. MOI also manages 
two state-run enterprises responsible 
for operating Bangkok’s water and 
wastewater treatment services.
Key Players in 
Smart Environment
The Office of Natural 
Resources and 
Environmental Policy 
and Planning (ONEP) is 
responsible for creating 
the Environmental Quality 
Management Plan, which is 
approved by the National 
Environmental Board. 
The Pollution Control 
Department (PCD) sets 
emission and effluent 
standards, and oversees the 
control and monitoring of 
pollution.
The Metropolitan 
Waterworks Authority 
(MWA) is a state-run 
enterprise responsible for 
the distribution, treatment 
and sale of potable water 
throughout much of the 
Bangkok Metropolitan Region.
The Wastewater 
Management Authority 
(WMA) is responsible for 
organising wastewater 
treatment in the Bangkok 
Metropolitan Region.
MINISTRY OF 
PUBLIC HEALTH
Though MNRE regulates municipal 
waste management, the Ministry of 
Public Health sets the collection fee 
ceiling that dictates how much the 
local municipality can charge for waste 
collection. 
BANGKOK 
METROPOLITAN 
ADMINISTRATION 
As the local authority in charge of 
municipal waste management, BMA 
contracts out collection and disposal 
services to third-party companies. 
Bangkok District offices, under 
the Environment Department, are 
responsible for collecting waste disposal 
fees, and hold district level data. The 
BMA Department of Drainage and 
Sewerage also play an important role in 
wastewater treatment.
Krungthep Thanakom is BMA’s 
public holding company, and 
determines public investment 
or concessions into waste 
and wastewater treatment 
facilities, including waste-to-
energy plants.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand62

Smart Water 
Metering & Monitoring
Smart metering for both drinking water and 
wastewater in households is a key opportunity 
for improving water use and treatment in 
Bangkok. Smart water metering and monitoring 
provides both households and service 
providers information in real-time about 
water consumption, water discharge, and any 
potentially harmful pollutants entering municipal 
water treatment facilities. 
BENEFITS
Online, real-time water quality monitoring 
helps measure current levels of pollution, as 
well as alerting citizens to health risks, while 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
water consumption metering is critical to enhance 
Bangkok’s ability to improve resource efficiency 
and provide cost savings both to consumers and 
the Municipal Waterworks Authority (MWA).
RELEVANCE
Bangkok’s water bodies are some of the most 
polluted in the world, attributed to inadequate 
facilities for water treatment and monitoring. 
Water shortages and salinity are also increasing 
challenges during the summer months.
The complete lack of wastewater discharge tariffs, 
and the low charges for water distribution, has 
been attributed to the lack of financial capacity for 
the city to upgrade its water infrastructure. Smart 
metering and monitoring can help in both counts 
by enabling accurate counts on the amount of 
water being used and discharged, which can lead to 
more accurate tariff reform. 
ONGOING INITIATIVE
A number of suppliers exist in Thailand selling 
smart water metering technology, though no 
planned or ongoing initiatives exist for smart water 
metering in Bangkok.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
64

Water 
Authority Cloud Platform Wireless 
Communications
Smart Meter & 
Sensors
Smart Billing & 
Monitoring
MWA
WMA
PCD
BMA
Solution Provider Solution Provider
 
MWA
WMA
Smart Meter 
Provider
The water supply 
authority (MWA) 
and wastewater 
management au-
thority (WMA, BMA 
Drainage and Sew-
erage) select and 
integrate meters
Cloud solutions 
and data analytics 
are provided by 
the smart meter 
provider
National, wireless 
telecommunications 
networks will enable 
data to pass from 
meters to water 
authorities
Smart meters 
solutions provider for 
water consumption 
monitoring, and 
smart sensors for 
discharge 
monitoring
Consumer facing 
consumption 
monitoring 
solutions, provided 
by MWA or solution 
provider , and water 
quality monitoring 
by the WMA
Smart metering 
system 
development, 
meter selection 
& procurement 
support
Cloud platform 
solutions and data 
analytics services & 
consultancy
-
Smart meter or 
sensor provider 
together with data 
analytics services
-
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
Smart meters record water consumption at 
regular intervals and then transmit information to 
a cloud platform for monitoring and analysis by 
the Metropolitan Waterworks Authority (MWA). 
Smart sensors measure the amount of wastewater 
discharged.
Consumption and discharge information is then 
transmitted back to consumers through a mobile 
device or home monitoring system, allowing for 
consumption and discharge monitoring to support 
more efficient water use practices.
The Metropolitan Waterworks Authority (MWA) 
and Wastewater Management Authority (WMA), 
together with the BMA Drainage and Sewerage 
Department, will be responsible for meter and 
sensor selection, procurement, installation 
and monitoring. They are also responsible for 
reporting and billing with their customers. 
Pollution levels and will be monitored and 
evaluated by the Pollution Control Department 
(PCD)
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
UK based solution providers and water authorities 
can support the MWA, WMA and BMA in designing 
and delivering the smart metering and monitoring 
system, as well as provide data analytics solutions 
for better response and improvements to the 
distribution and treatment networks of Bangkok.
While actual meter and sensor technology is likely 
to be sourced locally or from other global brands, 
the UK should focus on data analytics support and 
solutions.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERS
DESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Water Authority Cloud Platform
Wireless 
Communication
Smart Meter
Smart Sensors
Smart Billing & 
Monitoring
Smart Monitoring 
& Maintenance
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 65

UK-based companies are supporting 
the transformation of water 
utilities by using smart, data-based 
technology. Using leading-edge 
modelling and analytics tools, UK 
firms are helping utilities turn asset 
and operational data into actionable 
insights, and improve customer 
service and efficiency.
The UK is also a pioneer in 
wastewater treatment as British 
wastewater companies provide 
a full range of services to their 
international clients, including 
upgrading and renovating existing 
systems.
What can the UK offer?
• Water management system 
design
• Water system modelling and data 
analytics
• Predictive control and 
automation tools
• Wastewater recycling and 
treatment
WHY THE UK?
Aquamatix 
(www.aquamatix.net)
Developed WaterWorX™, a completely 
different approach to the way real-time 
network management solutions are 
designed and delivered which is a lot 
faster, lower cost and based on open 
standards.
Costain 
(www.costain.com)
Costain helps to improve people’s lives 
through smart infrastructure solutions 
to meet urgent national needs across the 
UK’s energy, water and transportation.
Kingspan Water & Energy 
(www.kingspanwaterandenergy.com)
Kingspan Water & Energy has been 
manufacturing sustainable solutions that 
preserve and protect water and energy 
for over 50 years. Our portfolio of 
Water, Energy and Service Management 
Solutions coupled with intelligent 
monitoring, utilising the Internet of 
Things, provide our customers with 
enhanced insight and greater control 
over their water and energy assets.
Metasphere 
(www.metasphere.co.uk)
Metasphere provides robust asset 
monitoring of time critical remote 
operations for operators to gain 
competitive advantage and meet 
regulatory compliance. Applications in 
the water and energy infrastructure 
sectors. IoT devices for real time 
monitoring.
Rezatec 
(www.rezatec.com)
Rezatec provides Big Data GeoAnalytics 
using proprietary algorithms and 
advanced machine learning techniques 
to customers spread across the water 
utilities, agribusiness, energy, urban 
infrastructure and forestry sectors.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
66

OVERVIEW
Yorkshire Water’s Hadfield smart 
water network pilot is a game-
changing pilot project developed with 
significant investment from Yorkshire 
Water Services (YWS). 
The utility is running a proof of 
concept, smart networks pilot in 
Hadfield and Loxley over the next 12 
months, with the aim to revolutionise 
SMART WATER UK SUCCESS STORY: YORKSHIRE WATER*
their approach to leak management 
and supply interruption reduction.
This urban area, with a population of 
around 20,000, was selected as YWS 
has already deployed a wide range of 
sensors and meters (~3,800), including 
smart digital meters, acoustic and 
hydrophone loggers, temperature, 
pressure and water quality sensors.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Yorkshire Water Services
• Xylem
• View
TIMELINE
• Ongoing
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• N/A
OUTCOMES
The disruptive and innovative pilot 
will present rich data from new and 
existing sources in an integrated, 
single visualisation platform. The 
platform uses machine learning and AI 
to cluster data sets and remove false 
positives to accurately inform asset 
and operational decision making. 
The cloud-based system will help 
meet YWS Outcome Delivery 
Incentives (ODI’s), mainly leakage, 
per capita consumption (PCC), 
supply interruptions, and customer 
measure of experience.
*Source: WWTonline
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 67

SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Smart Waste 
Management
Thailand’s ambitious targets for waste management 
apply heavily to Bangkok. Waste management reforms 
present vast potential for reuse and recycling, as 
well as waste-to-energy. However, none of this will be 
possible at scale without proper sorting and collection 
practices. Enter Smart Waste Management.
Smart Waste Management uses simple sensor 
technology to detect waste levels in public and 
community bins, and utilises data analytics to improve 
waste collection routes, leading to improved recovery 
of waste, and reduced costs for collection agencies.
BENEFITS
Smart waste management practices can benefit 
citizens by improving waste pick-up rates, reducing 
waste bin overflow, and reducing potential contact 
to harmful pollutants. It benefits waste collection 
agencies by reducing fuel and other operational 
costs through smart routing that optimises the 
waste collection truck time on the road.
RELEVANCE
Bangkok produces the highest amount of waste, 
by far, in Thailand, and more than half of the city’s 
waste is dumped openly. The installation of smart 
bins and smart route planning can make the most 
out of insufficient waste treatment infrastructure and 
capabilities.
If coupled with waste collection fee reforms that 
incentivise waste reduction, Bangkok’s waste 
management can be drastically improved. 
ONGOING INITIATIVE
D-Kids Phuket
In 2017, the mayor of Phuket’s busiest tourist 
destination, Patong Beach, partnered with local waste 
management SME D-Kids to develop a smart waste 
management application to combat the overwhelming 
amount of rubbish piling up in the town.
A mobile application was developed by D-Kids for locals 
to take photos and report where waste pileups were 
occurring. D-Kids would then collect waste for disposal.
The service has since expanded to include smart bins 
equipped with sensors to measure the amount of waste, 
as well as temperature and humidity. Untreated waste 
has been reduced by an estimated 30%.
D-Kids was awarded a THB 42 million contract 
from the local municipality, and is seeking THB 
10 million in loans to procure seven additional 
garbage trucks.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand68

Smart Public Bins Smart Community / 
Household Bins Cloud Platform Waste Monitoring 
System
Smart Routing 
System
 BMA
Contracted Waste 
Collectors
Real Estate 
Developers or 
Property Managers
Neighbourhood 
Developments
Solution Provider
 BMA
Contracted Waste 
Collectors
Solution Provider
 BMA
Contracted Waste 
Collectors
Solution Provider
BMA and their con-
tracted collection 
and disposal com-
panies will select 
and install smart 
bin technology at 
optimally placed 
locations for public 
waste collection
Private property 
developers and 
managers, as well 
as large neighbour-
hood developments 
install smart bin 
technology in their 
developments
Waste levels of bins 
will be recorded and 
stored on a cloud 
platform
BMA and waste col-
lection companies 
will operate a waste 
monitoring system 
to track waste in the 
system; Can also 
be contracted to a 
solution provider
BMA and waste 
collection 
companies utilise 
smart routing 
analytics to 
optimise garbage 
truck routes; Can 
also be contracted 
to a solution 
provider
Waste bin location 
system design and 
consulting, and 
technology provider
Waste bin location 
and system design 
and consulting, and 
technology provider
Cloud platform solu-
tion provider
Waste monitoring 
system and data 
analytics solution 
provider
Smart routing 
system solution 
provider
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
Waste collection and disposal in Bangkok is 
provided by third-party contractors under 
the supervision of BMA. They are responsible 
for public waste collection, and also contract 
separately with private property developers and 
managers to provide waste collection to private 
residences and commercial buildings. 
The BMA and property owners will either directly 
install smart bin sensor technology within their 
respective jurisdiction, or contract out to one 
of the waste collection companies to own and 
operate the bins. Waste levels are then recorded 
by the smart bins and stored on a cloud platform, 
which is then analysed through a central waste 
monitoring system. Artificial intelligence and 
data analytics are then utilised to optimise route 
planning and waste collection for collection 
operators.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
While the largest impact for waste management 
in Bangkok would be to implement smart 
management practices at the city or district scale, 
this will require significant reform from the BMA 
and third-party contractors, limiting commercial 
opportunities in the short-term.
However, many private property developers and 
large commercial developments are exploring 
ways to reduce and manage waste within their 
property, and there are opportunities throughout 
the service chain to partner directly with these 
private entities. Opportunities also exist for 
construction waste management and waste-to-
energy.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Smart Public Bins Cloud Platform
Waste Monitoring 
System
 
Smart Community 
/ Household Bins
Smart Routing 
System
 
 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 69

The waste industry in the UK is 
extensive, and the country has 
numerous experts working within 
the consulting, operational and 
engineering sectors. These experts 
work on national and international 
projects providing innovative and 
groundbreaking services.
UK consultancies are highly regarded 
internationally and are well placed 
to help bridge the gap between 
research and industry, enabling faster 
development and implementation of 
ideas.
What can the UK offer?
• Waste management strategy 
consulting
• Innovative waste collection and 
sorting technologies
• Waste incineration systems
• Anaerobic digestion technologies
• Plastic recycling & reuse
• Waste-to-Energy
• Processing of construction, 
demolition and excavation waste
WHY THE UK?
All Waste Matters Ltd 
(www.allwastematters.co.uk)
Professional collection and disposal of 
chemical waste.
Biffa 
(www.biffa.co.uk)
Biffa is a waste management company 
in the UK. It provides collection, landfill, 
recycling an special waste services 
to local authorities and industrial and 
commercial clients in the UK.
Cheaper Waste 
(www.cheaperwaste.co.uk)
The UK’s fastest-growing waste 
management service provider.
Denniss Eagle 
(www.dennis-eagle.com)
Providing the global waste and recycling 
industry with robust, reliable efficient 
and innovative ECO-technology.
Egbert Taylor 
(www.egberttaylor.com)
Egbert Taylor is the UK’s leading 
provider of waste management solutions 
through their innovative and forward 
thinking product range.
FCC Environment 
(www.fccenvironment.co.uk)
FCC Environment is one of the UK’s 
leading waste and resource management 
companies with a range of services, from 
collecting business and municipal waste 
to recycling and processing and the 
generation of green energy from waste.
Grundon 
(www.grundon.com)
Grundon Waste Management provide a 
service for reduction, reuse, recycling, 
recovery and disposal of waste. 
Highlander International 
(www.highlanderinternational.co.uk) 
Highlander International recycling offers 
a wide range of products and services 
relating to recovered paper recycling.
Hillend Engineering 
(www.hillendeng.com)
Hillend Engineering develops waste and 
recycling products with specific missions 
in mind.
MVV Environment 
(www.mvv.de)
MVV Environment provides flexible 
solutions for waste disposal, producing 
environmentally sustainable energy.
Recycling UK Ltd 
(www.recycleduklimited.com)
Recycled UK Ltd’s Waste Management 
Company and has evolved into one of 
the country’s leading providers of total 
waste management solutions. 
Straight 
(www.straight.co.uk)
Straight Ltd (Waste & Recycling 
Container Specialists) is the UK’s leading 
manufacturer of high-quality waste and 
recycling solutions. 
The Waste Company 
(www.thewastecompany.co.uk)
The Waste Company is the UK leading 
Waste Management Solution Specialists, 
Commercial Waste, Construction waste 
and Recycling waste solutions.
Viridor 
(www.wyllierecycling.co.uk) 
Wyllie Recycling Ltd is committed to real 
recycling and to achieve “Zero waste to 
landfill”.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
70

OVERVIEW
In January 2020, Biffa, a UK leader 
in recycling and waste management, 
opened a new state of the art PET plas-
tic bottle recycling facility in Seaham, 
County Durham, UK. The facility is 
capable of processing 57,000 tonnes of 
PET plastic per year, or the equivalent 
to 1.3bn plastic bottles.
PET, or polyethylene terephthalate, is 
WASTE MANAGEMENT UK SUCCESS STORY: BIFFA SEAHAM
a commonly used material to package 
soft drinks, popular as it is lightweight, 
durable, and highly recyclable, produc-
ing significantly lower carbon emissions
The Biffa plant will convert PET back 
into plastic pellets to be sold and used 
for a range of recycled products, rang-
ing from food and beverage packaging, 
to clothing.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Biffa
• Northern Powerhouse 
Partnership
TIMELINE
• Ongoing
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• £27.5 million
OUTCOME
The new facility is expected to generate 
£40m in revenues per year, and will pro-
vide 100 full time jobs in the region. 
The plant will capitalise on the access 
to plastic waste that Biffa has through 
its collections and sorting activities, 
including the 4.1m tonnes of waste 
and recycling the Group collects from 
UK households and businesses every 
year.
Biffa believes the plant will play an 
important role in reducing plastic 
pollution in the UK by improving the 
country’s ability to recycle through 
sustainable closed loop systems.
*Source: British Plastics and Rubber Magazine
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 71

The following section describes the current state of 
energy in Thailand and Bangkok. It identifies some of 
the key technologies needed to develop a smart energy 
system in the city, highlights the primary stakeholders 
involved in smart energy, and suggests some important 
steps needed to further implement smart energy in 
Thailand’s capital.
Smart Energy

The information produced by smart energy technologies 
enable people to understand their consumption patterns 
and control their monthly utility bills. However, there are 
several data privacy issues related to smart metering that 
could prevent or slow smart energy initiatives, and it is 
imperative utilities are transparent and public about how 
they use their customers’ data. 
Given the dependence of other city systems and key 
infrastructures on the energy system, the security of a 
smart energy grid must also be a major priority. Because 
of this, it is critical to create a comprehensive security 
framework at the early stage of developing the smart 
energy system.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Smart energy powers the technologies at the foundation of 
the smart city. Energy utilities will need to transform their 
infrastructure systems to enable consumer participation, 
accommodate new forms of generation and storage, 
and optimise grid operations. They will need to leverage 
information and communications technologies (ICT) to 
enable two-way communications between consumers and 
service providers. 
Smart meters on every home and building, and sensors 
and measuring devices throughout the energy grid, will 
provide valuable information that helps control energy 
consumption and improve the reslience of the network. 
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
In every smart domain involving the use of advanced 
digital technologies and the development of new markets, 
the question of manpower and capacity becomes a 
challenge. This is no different in smart energy. 
There is a need for those trained in installation 
of renewable energy and distributed generation 
infrastructures, as well as the software know-how for 
energy trade, management and operation of smart grids. 
However, markets can also be major job producers, as 
renewable energy jobs like solar installations typically 
produce more local jobs than large centralised plants that 
are often operated outside the region.
SMART CITIZENS
Creating a smart energy system will not occur without 
understanding dependencies between energy and 
other city systems and services. The installation of 
new distribution lines will require cooperation with the 
operators of roads and owners of other parts of the built 
environment. As distributed generation from solar, wind 
and other related technologies continues to grow, utilities, 
city governments, and other service providers will need to 
form new, closer relationships to ensure effective energy 
delivery. Prioritising the development of clearly defined 
interconnection standards is an important step in making 
it easier for residents and building owners to plug solar 
and wind into the grid and ensure interoperability over the 
long-term.
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart Energy
Simply put, our cities cannot work 
without energy. It lights our streets, 
pumps our water, cools our homes, and 
fuels our cars, trains and buses. Energy 
is integral to nearly every facet of the 
city, and therefore it plays a critical role 
in the smart city, too. 
Smart energy refers to creating and 
supporting a smart energy system, 
meaning a system that connects our 
energy production, distribution and 
consumption so we can understand how 
to balance supply and demand in real-
time. A smart energy system helps to 
reduce waste in our networks, decrease 
the frequency of power outages, and 
empowers residents and utilities to 
monitor and control their energy use so 
we can save on our bills.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 73

Smart Energy in 
Bangkok
Smart energy encompasses all forms 
of energy – electricity, gas, coal, 
renewables, and others. However, 
electricity is the most ubiquitous form of 
energy in our cities and is therefore the 
priority of most smart energy initiatives. 
Electric utilities serve as the key 
infrastructure for energy consumption 
in Bangkok, bringing energy access to 
nearly every household and business in 
the city. 
In 2019, Bangkok consumption amounted 
to 28% of the national total, or around 
53,345 GWh, and consumption is 
growing at a rate of 3.3%, annually.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 
In the last couple of decades, the sector 
has begun to employ more decentralised 
forms of energy generation and 
distribution as a range of innovation 
has been introduced in the form of 
rooftop solar and other renewables, 
electric vehicles, and high-performance 
batteries. 
PAIN POINTS
Peer-to-peer energy trading is the most 
common type of non-public energy 
trading in Thailand, however, a number 
of technical and legal hurdles remain. 
Intermittent generation from solar 
and wind means an overdependence 
on renewables could lead to rolling 
blackouts. An unclear regulatory 
environment to enable individual 
producers of electricity to sell power 
back to the grid is also slowing the 
growth of this market.
OPPORTUNITIES 
At this stage, efforts to transform 
the energy system through smart 
technologies have been limited to a small 
number of pilots and the introduction of 
regulatory sandbox policies. 
However, there is a demand for 
advancement in energy storage capacity 
in Thailand that has the potential to 
reduce the impact of variable renewable 
energy generation. 
Know-how related to energy trading 
platforms, distributed ledger (blockchain) 
technology, and the related software is 
also in high demand, as is the expertise 
around demand side response (DSR) 
management and operations. 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand74

To truly understand the state of 
smart energy in Bangkok, we need to 
understand the landscape of the Thai 
domestic electricity market. 
THAILAND’S STATE-RUN ENERGY 
ENTERPRISES 
In Thailand, the electricity market is 
dominated by three main state-owned 
utilities: the Electricity Generating 
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) under the 
Ministry of Energy, and the Metropolitan 
Electricity Authority (MEA) and 
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) 
under the Ministry of Interior. 
Each state-owned utility has their 
own authorities and jurisdictions, 
appointed by the central government. 
EGAT is responsible for national power 
generation and transmission, while 
the other two, MEA and PEA, are 
responsible for power distribution in 
metropolitan areas and provincial areas, 
respectively. 
In sum, EGAT has responsibility 
for electric power generation and 
transmission to MEA and PEA. EGAT 
owns and operates the national 
transmission network which includes 
transmission lines and substations 
of various voltage levels across the 
country, while MEA and PEA are the 
principal distributors. 
MINISTRY OF ENERGY MINISTRY OF INTERIOR PTT PUBLIC COMPANY LTD.
Key Players in 
Smart Energy
The Energy Policy and Planning Office 
(EPPO), under the Ministry of Energy, 
is responsible for the strategic planning 
and development of the Thailand 
energy system. 
The current Power Development Plan 
(2018-2037) places a major emphasis on 
expanding renewable energy production 
in the country, as well as working with 
the three state-run enterprises to 
develop and test the needed smart grid 
technologies to accommodate the shift 
to the energy “prosumer”. 
EPPO has initiated a number of smart 
grid pilots around the country, most 
notably in Bangkok and Pattaya, and is 
also working on projects related to EV-
charging stations and networks.
Electricity Generating 
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) 
Responsible for national power 
generation and transmission.
Metropolitan Electricity 
Authority (MEA) 
Responsible for power 
distribution in metropolitan 
areas.
Electricity producers and distributors 
must obtain electricity distribution 
licenses from the Energy Regulatory 
Commission (ERC). Connection 
to the transmission grid requires 
the execution of a power purchase 
agreement (PPA) with MEA, PEA or 
EGAT, and it is through this process 
that specific requirements concerning 
grid connectivity, safety standards and 
metering, are detailed. 
Provincial Electricity 
Authority (PEA) 
Responsible for power 
distribution in provincial and 
rural areas.
PTT, formerly the Petroleum Authority 
of Thailand, is a state-owned, Stock 
Exchange of Thailand (SET) listed 
company. It’s primary business is in 
oil and gas, but is also in electricity 
generation and petrochemical products.
PTT also has many subsidiaries that are 
working to produce more renewable or 
alternative forms of energy.
INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS
Various independent power producers 
(IPPs) supply power in Thailand, 
the largest of which are Banpu 
Public Company Ltd. and Bangchak 
Corporation Public Company Ltd. (BCP).
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
75

Smart Electricity 
Metering
Smart metering technologies are the first step 
on the road to a smart electrical grid, and is a key 
service priority for MEA within its Bangkok service 
area.
As Bangkok prepares to make the jump to a national 
smart electrical grid, widespread application of 
smart metering is necessary in order to analyse and 
ensure network stabilty in the transition.
BENEFITS
Installation of smart metering devices at the 
household or building level enables real-time 
monitoring and analysis of energy consumption (and 
potentially generation), helping consumers control 
their consumption habits and reduce their bills.
Suppliers gain real-time notifications of potential 
outages and save on costs associated with manual 
meter readings. Data produced by smart meters can 
lead to policy innovations and network optimisation.
RELEVANCE
Energy consumption in Bangkok has increased 
steadily by 3.3%, annually, a key indicator that 
smart metering is needed to help slow overall 
consumption. 
Thailand’s overall reliance on imported energy 
sources is also driving the demand of distributed 
generation and peer-to-peer energy trading, both 
requiring smart meters to fully deploy.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
In 2020, the Metropolitan Electricity Authority 
(MEA) launched an initiative called the “Smart 
Metro Grid” project. The project is aligned with the 
government’s smart city initiative, with a budget of 
Bt1.149 billion. In collaboration with FORTH and Yip 
In Tsoi (YIT), the project aims to install smart meters 
for some 33,000 households for selected areas of 
Bangkok.
FORTH is a Thai-tech listed company providing 
electronic and digital-based solutions for businesses 
and consumers. In this project, FORTH provides 
smart meters with wireless communication, while 
YIT, a total IT solution provider, is providing a 
data management platform, based on Omnimesh 
technologies by CyanConnode.
By 2022, smart meters and two-way communication 
devices will be installed which would enable MEA 
to monitor electricity usage in real-time and locate 
positions where malfunctions occur for corrective 
measures and quick responses. On top of that, the 
project will assist consumers in managing their 
consumption more efficiently. Data from meters will 
also enhance MEA’s capability in developing innovative 
modern services for people going forward.
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand76

SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
Smart meters record electricity usage at regular 
intervals (typically 30 minutes or an hour) and 
then transmit information to a cloud platform 
for monitoring and analysis by the electricity 
authority. 
Consumption information is then transmitted back 
to consumers through a mobile device or home 
monitoring system, allowing for consumption 
monitoring, which can lead to more predictable 
and lower utility expenses.
As the electricity authority in Bangkok, 
Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) will be 
responsible for meter selection, procurement, 
installation and monitoring. They are also 
responsible for reporting and billing with their 
customers.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
A solution provider will supply the smart meters 
themselves, while cloud platforms used to process 
the data collected by the smart meters will be 
provided by another third party. These providers 
are often one and the same, though that is not 
always the case.
UK companies have an opportunity to offer 
consultancy services throughout the value chain, 
with particular focus on data analytics with an eye 
towards broader network applications.
Electricity 
Authority Cloud Platform Wireless 
Communications Smart Meter Smart Billing & 
Monitoring
Metropolitan 
Electricity 
Authority (MEA)
Solution Provider Solution Provider
 
OR 
Smart Meter 
Provider
MEA is the primary 
service operator in 
Bangkok, and will 
be responsible for 
meter selection and 
integration
Cloud solutions and 
data analytics are 
typically provided 
by the smart meter 
provider
National, wireless 
telecommunications 
networks will enable 
data to pass from 
meters to MEA
Smart meters 
typically provided 
by company offering 
data analytics and 
cloud integration
MEA responsible 
for billing and 
consumption 
monitoring. May 
also provide 
installation and 
maintenance, 
though solution 
providers may also 
offer this service
Smart metering 
solution 
development, 
meter selection & 
procurement
consultancy
Cloud platform 
solutions and data 
analytics services & 
consultancy
Smart meter 
provider
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERS
 
DESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 77

The UK has one of the most mature 
and sophisticated national grid 
systems in the world and, through 
its long-term evolution, the UK has 
developed a wealth of expertise in 
the design, delivery, operation and 
maintenance of grid systems.
The UK’s regulatory framework, 
which emphasises and incentivises 
innovation, competition and 
transparency, has led to the growth 
and deployment of a wide range of 
smart technologies and services, all 
with applications that can be scaled 
and applied globally. Whatever the 
scale of project, the UK has expertise 
and suppliers that can deliver.
What can the UK offer?
• Policy, regulation and incentive 
design;
• Whole system design and 
implementation;
• Technical innovations (e.g. new 
storage
• Remote system monitoring and 
control systems.
WHY THE UK?
Advizzo 
(www.advizzo.com)
Advizzo has developed a software 
which monitors and analyses the utility 
consumption patterns of consumers 
and provides tips and insights on how to 
reduce it.
CyanConnode 
(www.cyanconnode.com)
IoT (secure Narrowband RF mesh 
networks) used to save costs and energy, 
enabling governments, metropolitan 
authorities and businesses to monitor 
and manage services such as utilities and 
street lighting with optimum efficiency.
Fabriq 
(www.fabriq.space)
A platform that enables the management 
of energy and building performance data 
across all kinds of assets.
Germserv 
(www.germserv.com)
Smart metering regulatory and 
consultancy advice.
Green Energy Options 
(www.geotogether.com)
Efficient collection of raw data from 
meters or solar panels, delivery onto 
cloud servers, and the processing 
of information for analysis and 
presentation.
Steama 
(www.steama.co)
The world’s most data-efficient energy 
management system.
Informetis 
(www.informetis.com)
Robust IoT system platform designed 
and developed inhouse, that collects and 
stores data from our own energy sensor 
as well as various third party IoT sensors, 
for energy disaggregation and other 
analysis.
Kingspan Water and Energy Ltd 
(www.kingspanwaterandenergy.com)
Kingspan Water & Energy has been 
manufacturing sustainable solutions that 
preserve and protect water and energy 
for over 50 years. Our portfolio of 
Water, Energy and Service Management 
Solutions coupled with intelligent 
monitoring, utilising the Internet of 
Things, provide our customers with 
enhanced insight and greater control 
over their water and energy assets.
Open Energi 
(www.openenergi.com)
Open Energi (formerly known 
as “RLtec”) has developed grid 
management technology that once 
installed in electrical devices (e.g. fridges 
and air conditioners) aims to enable a 
carbon-free balancing of energy supply 
and demand across the national grid.
OVO 
(www.ovoenergy.com)
OVO is the UK’s largest independent 
energy technology company and 
supplier, serving nearly one million 
customers with intelligent energy 
services and other home services.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
78

OVERVIEW
In partnership with Kenya Power (KPLC), 
UK-based supplier Lucy Electric installed 
Kenya’s first 11kV distribution automation 
system (DAS) to help improve power 
supply in Mombasa - Kenya’s second 
largest city.
It covered 1,661 square kilometres 
and was part of the country’s wider 
infrastructure development programme. 
SMART ELECTRICITY UK SUCCESS STORY: MOMBASA, KENYA
Support for the development of this 
scheme was provided by UK Export 
Finance. 
The turnkey solution developed by 
Lucy Electric also included the end-to-
end design, manufacture, delivery and 
installation of all the contract-specified 
equipment.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Kenya Power (KPLC)
• Lucy Electric
• UK Export Finance
TIMELINE
• Phase 1 2010-2012
• Phase 2 2015-2017
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• £4.5m (THB 178.2m)
OUTCOMES
As a result of the project, average 
power interruptions have been reduced 
from 2 hours to just 20 seconds. 
Eng. Samuel Ndirangu of Kenya Power 
said: “Lucy Electric’s determination to 
provide excellent customer support 
both locally and remotely, through the 
automation design team, far exceeded 
the levels of value and customer service 
that Kenya Power has had in the past. 
Their automation system has given us 
greater control and awareness of our 
network which has meant that we will 
be able to offer a more reliable service 
to customers.”
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 79

Electric Vehicle 
Charging Networks
The number of electric vehicles (EV) on the road 
in Thailand is steadily increasing, the result of 
government policies to promote and support EV 
production, and part of its push to reduce energy 
use in the transportation sector. The need for EV 
charging stations and networks, both in the home 
and commercial market, will continue to grow in 
the years to come, driving demand for charging 
technology itself, as well as understanding of 
network stability and smart demand management.
BENEFITS
Electric vehicles are one of the best long-term 
solutions to reducing air pollution in our cities. EVs also 
help to improve energy efficiency in the transportation 
sector, decreasing reliance on fossil fuels. EVs can even 
save vehicle owners money in the long-run.
RELEVANCE
According to the Land Transport Department, as 
of December 2019, there were more than 150,000 
registered EVs in Thailand, though less than 1,500 
of these were 100% battery EVs, and most of 
those were motorbikes. Consumer uptake of EVs is 
still low, though widespread market penetration is 
seen as inevitable in the next 5-10 years.
Thailand is the first country in Southeast Asia to offer 
incentives for EV manufacturers and tax reductions 
on sales of their cars. By 2036, the Thai government 
aims to have 1.2 million electric vehicles nationwide, 
and 690 public charging stations. 
ONGOING INITIATIVES
The Electric Vehicle Association of Thailand (EVAT), 
together with the Energy Regulatory Commission 
(ERC) and Energy Policy and Planning Office (EPPO) 
of the Ministry of Energy, has organised the EVAT 
Charging Consortium, an effort to coordinate relevant 
stakeholders to prepare the country for servicing 
electric vehicle users.
It is a collaboration of government agencies and the 
private sector, consisting of charging service providers, 
automobile companies and capacitor companies.
In 2017, the Ministry of Energy, in collaboration with 
EVAT, began the first round of investment promotion 
into 100 electric vehicle charging stations in Bangkok. 
Both public and private sector actors were invited to 
submit applications to receive funds from the Energy 
Conservation Promotion Fund.
100% subsidies were offered to public sector partners, 
whereas subsidies for the private sector, which included 
hotels and resorts, department store operators, office 
and housing developments, were offered 30-70% 
subsidy. Both normal charging stations and quick-
charge stations were included in the programme. 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand80

Supply Grid Stability Control 
System
Charge Point 
Operator (CPO)
Charging 
Station
Charging 
System 
Standard
EV Cars
 MEA
 EGAT
Solution 
Provider
Public or 
Private Sector 
Owners
(i.e., department 
store operators, 
housing 
developers, 
office parks)
Solution 
Provider 
(local and 
global 
providers exist 
in the market)
Thai Industrial 
Standards 
Institute (TISI)
Car 
Manufacturer
As electricity 
generators and 
distributors, 
EGAT and MEA 
are responsible 
for ensuring net-
work stability
Charge 
management 
solutions 
to manage 
frequency and 
improve stability 
in the system
The operator 
of commercial 
charging sta-
tions providing 
the charge point 
for EV owners
Both home and 
commercial 
charging stations 
provided by 
third-party 
manufacturer or 
supplier
Standards of EV 
charging system, 
electromagnetic 
compatibility, 
battery for EV 
and DC meter 
for billing 
system
19 major auto 
manufacturers 
exist in Thailand, 
most of which 
are already 
producing EVs 
for purchase
Consultancy 
for system 
design and 
management
Consultancy 
and technology 
provider 
for stability 
control system 
design and 
management 
solutions
Home and/
or commercial 
charging station 
provider
Standard 
consultancy
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Supply Grid
Stability Control 
System
Charge Point 
Operator (CPO)
Commercial 
Charging Station
Home Charging 
Station
Charging System 
Standard
EV Cars
 
 E
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
Two major markets exist for EV charging 
stations: home and commercial. As the price of 
EVs drops in coming years, demand for privately 
owned EVs and home charging stations will 
grow. Private owners of EVs will need to install 
charging stations at home, which are purchased 
from a supplier and connected directly to the 
grid.
Commercial charging points are mostly 
operated by department store operators like 
Central Group and The Mall Group, operators of 
petrol stations like PTT and Bangchak, and large 
office or housing complexes. These charging 
points will be purchased from third-party 
suppliers, as well.
MEA and EGAT are responsible for ensuring 
stability to the electrical grid. They will work 
together with solution providers to develop 
charge management solutions that meet the 
needs of the supply grid.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
Aside from the price of EVs, the major obstacles 
holding back the market in Thailand today are a 
lack of set standards for charging networks and 
unknowns related to grid stability.
UK solution providers have an opportunity to 
enter into the growing EV market with their 
expertise in system design and stability control 
management, packaging charging station 
technology together with stability control 
system design and management solutions.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
81

In 2017 the UK was the second largest 
market for Ultra-Low Emissions 
Vehicles (ULEVs) in Europe, and it is 
a global leader in their development 
and manufacture. In the first half 
of 2018 , 1 in 5 battery electric cars 
sold in Europe was made in the UK. 
The UK has long been a pioneer 
of automotive innovation and is 
increasingly a leading manufacturer 
of electric vehicles and charging 
systems.
What can the UK offer?
• Manufacture of core automotive 
component
• Manufacture of lighter body 
structures
• Provision of maintenance and 
repair services for E&HVs
• R&D for battery cell components
• Charging station installation and 
maintenance
• Development of mobile apps/
information management 
systems
WHY THE UK?
Chargemaster 
(www.bpchargemaster.com)
UKs largest supplier of charging 
infrastructure for electric vehicles. 
It provides charging units for home, 
business and public use, and operates 
its own electric vehicle public charging 
network, called POLAR.
Connected Kerb 
(www.connectedkerb.com)
Connected Kerb manufactures and 
installs EV (electric vehicle) charging 
points in urban environments.
CrowdCharge 
(www.crowd-charge.com)
CrowdCharge is developing a digital 
platform to manage multiple electric 
vehicle chargers to provide EV owners 
with cheaper and greener electricity, 
while at the same time reducing 
the impact from EV charging on the 
electricity grid – in the UK and globally.
EA Technology 
(www.eatechnology.com)
Global leaders in electricity network 
engineering and smart charging 
solutions to mitigate EV impact 
on electrical grids. Their Network 
Assessment Tool represents the 
state-of-the-art in electric vehicle 
infrastructure planning and impact 
assessment. 
EO Charging 
(www.eocharging.com)
EO Charging develops and 
manufactures smart charging 
technology for electric vehicles.
GreenFlux 
(www.greenflux.com) 
GreenFlux helps its customers in the 
EV industry to optimally manage their 
charging networks to accelerate the 
adoption of electric vehicles.
Ovon 
(www.ovon.io)
Smart charging industrial designers.
Pod Point 
(www.pod-point.com)
The UK’s leading provider of electric 
vehicle charging.
Spark EV Technology 
(www.sparkevtechnology.com)
Software solution for electric vehicles 
in multiple market sectors, addressing 
their key challenges and driving 
greater adoption and increased driver 
trust.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
82

OVERVIEW
When launched, Electric Nation was 
the world’s largest home smart 
charging trial with nearly 700 Electric 
Vehicle (EV) owners taking part in the 
18-month trial in Midlands and Wales. 
Between them, trial participants 
provided data for more than 2 million 
hours of car charging. Importantly 
this also gave first-hand feedback on 
what it is like living
ELECTRIC VEHICLE UK SUCCESS STORY: ELECTRIC NATION
with an EV in the real world and how 
they found the smart charging expe-
rience.
The lessons from this project greatly 
assist local electricity networks in 
accommodating home EV charging 
whilst ensuring that drivers always 
have the ability to charge when they 
need to.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Western Power Distribution
• EA Technology
• CrowdCharge
• DriveElectric
TIMELINE
• Phase 1 2015-2016
• Phase 2 Ongoing
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• £2.3m (THB 91.2m)
OUTCOMES
Smart charging, as trialed by the 
original Electric Nation project, 
uncovered ways to move demand 
away from peak times by managing 
charge times through charging 
technology. However, vehicle to grid 
(V2G) charging offers a lot more than 
just smart charging: it offers the ability 
for potentially millions of EVs to smart 
charge using renewable energy and 
act as battery storage facilities, and 
then put energy back into the grid 
if needed. This means that rather 
than EVs being seen as a problem in 
relation to grid capacity, they can be 
an important solution to help balance 
the grid.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 83

energy consumers: a shopping centre, a high school, an 
apartment building, and a dental hospital. 
By utilising a blockchain token system, excess energy 
produced by these four entities can be sold to the 
others, rather than letting it spill back into the network. 
In this pilot, BCPG acts as a middle-man in buying 
and selling the excess energy. In a commercialised 
deployment, participants could receive an even higher 
return.
This project marked the first P2P renewable energy 
trade in Asia. 
Peer-to-Peer 
Energy Trading
Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading is the buying 
and selling of electricity, often excess energy from 
rooftop solar, between two or more grid-connected 
entities. 
EGAT and ERC have already started to test regulatory 
reforms that allow for P2P energy trade from 
solar rooftops onto the grid, and the MEA and PEA 
have also launched pilots to explore the impact of 
distributed renewable energy production on their 
systems.
BENEFITS
P2P energy trading expands the availability of 
renewables, reduces the cost of energy, and provides 
choice in the market for consumers.
By distributing power generation, you also reduce 
the strain (or need) for expensive electricity 
transportation networks, and the network can become 
more resilient to disruption. With the use of blockchain, 
trading can also be done with full transparency.
RELEVANCE
Thai energy is heavily dependent on imports and 
fossil fuels, and the Ministry of Energy has already 
stated the goal of moving towards distributed power 
generation and domestic renewable energy. 
Opening the energy market to P2P trading through a 
producer-consumers, or ‘prosumer’, model drives the 
demand for renewable energy generation, quickening 
the transition to distributed energy, while reducing 
the cost to government and public utilities.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
In 2018, Power Ledger, an Australian-based software 
company developing solutions for the energy 
industry, partnered with BCPG, the Bangchak 
subsidiary and renewable energy industry leader, 
to pilot a peer-to-peer energy trading platform in 
Bangkok.
The Power Ledger Platform utilises an ecosystem 
of blockchain applications to allow households 
and other renewable energy producers to trade 
electricity with each other. 
Power Ledger and BCPG partnered with MEA and 
Thai real estate developer Sansiri to install a total 
capacity of 635 kW of solar power generation at 
its T77 development. The trial includes four large 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand84

Supply Grid Net Meter Secure Trading 
Platform Gross Meter Solar enabled 
home / building
 MEA
 EGAT
-
MEA or 
Solution Provider -
Solar Panel 
Supplier & Home 
Owner / Building 
Operator
As the current 
electricity retailer in 
Bangkok, MEA will 
buy excess energy 
through a feed-in 
tariff and monitor 
network stability
Net meter measures 
unused energy 
AFTER private use 
or P2P trading for 
purchase through 
the grid
Energy trading 
occurs through 
a unified, secure 
platform, provided 
by technology com-
pany or the energy 
retailer themselves 
(can utilise block-
chain technology)
Gross meter records 
ALL of the electric-
ity generated by 
solar panels
Solar panels sup-
plied and installed 
at home or building 
site - connected to 
P2P network; May 
include battery 
technology for 
energy storage for 
later use/trade
Network design 
and tariff structure 
consultancy
Smart meter 
provider , data ana-
lytics and 
communication
Trading Platform 
supplier , data an-
alytics, and block-
chain consultancy
Smart meter 
provider , data ana-
lytics and 
communication
Battery technology 
provider
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
The simplified ecosystem to the right shows the 
basic form of a P2P energy trading platform. 
Solar panels are installed at homes and/or 
commercial buildings for energy generation. 
Excess energy can then be transmitted and 
sold to other users through user-friendly apps 
or online platforms which allow consumers 
to see how much energy they use, need, or 
have stored, and then enable them to trade it 
instantly with other local users at the click of a 
button (or through automation).
In this model, energy trading is done completely 
‘behind the meter’, meaning energy is not 
traded back onto the broader grid, though 
traditional electricity suppliers and retailers, 
in this case MEA, may still charge a fee for the 
use of their distribution network. Early pilots 
are being trialed where MEA or EGAT may also 
purchase unused energy generated by solar 
panels for a feed-in tariff as it is brought back 
into the larger grid.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
P2P energy trading is still in the very early 
stages in Thailand, and there is demand for 
the expertise throughout the value chain. 
In particular, overall network and tariff 
structure consultancy is in need, as is the 
platform solutions to facilitate secure trading 
transactions, including blockchain.
Though solar panels are already well supplied 
in the Thai market, there is an opportunity in 
battery technology to increase storage capacity.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Supply Grid
Net Meter Secure Trading 
Platform
Gross Meter
Solar Enabled 
Home / Building
 
 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 85

Some of the UK’s biggest 
energy firms are implementing 
groundbreaking trials of peer-to-peer 
energy trading within the domestic 
grid, and they are standing by, ready 
to export their knowledge abroad.
These UK firms can help support the 
development of new, sustainable 
business models for energy utilities 
and providers, and help in the 
transition to a cleaner and more 
efficient energy system.
What can the UK offer?
• Electrical networks and storage 
consultancy
• Original equipment 
manufacturing
• Aggregation intermediaries 
(demand side response)
• P2P system development & 
project management
• Blockchain system design
• Co-location and Renewables
WHY THE UK?
Anesco 
(www.anesco.co.uk)
Anesco is the UK’s leading renewable 
energy company that develops, constructs, 
operates and maintains high performing 
grid scale renewable energy projects.
Bowers Electricals 
(www.bowerselec.co.uk)
Bowers Electricals is a UK-based 
designer and are Electrical Transformer 
Manufacturer of Industrial transformers.
Cumulus Energy Storage 
(www.cumulusenergystorage.com)
Cumulus Energy Storage (Cumulus) aims to 
be the leading manufacturer and developer 
of grid-level energy storage batteries with 
the lowest levelised cost of storage (LCOS) 
globally.
EA Technology 
(www.eatechnology.com)
EA technology is a world leader in 
products and services which enhance th 
performance, reliability, safety and cost-
effective of power networks.
Greenhedge 
(www.green-hedge.com)
Green Hedge develops, realises and 
operates large grid-connected energy 
storage projects across Britain.
Highview Power 
(www.highviewpower.com)
Highview Power’s CRYOBattery delivers, 
clean, reliable and cost-efficient long-
duration energy storage to enable a 100% 
renewable energy future.
Kiwi Power 
(www.kiwipowered.com) 
Kiwi Power is a leading global energy 
technology company that is simplifying 
distributed energy. Kiwi Power’s vision is 
to simplify distributed energy for global 
sustainability impact. 
Limejump 
(www.limejump.com)
 Limejump provides distributed energy 
generators in the UK with smart, simple 
and transparent access to energy markets.
Origami Energy 
(www.origamienergy.com)
Origami Energy is a technology company 
with the vision to build a real-time 
marketplace for the distributed energy 
world. 
Ormazable UK 
(www.ormazabal.com )
The company specialised in the electric 
sector focused on innovation and 
encourage the development of the electric 
sector to solve future energy needs.
Powervault 
 (www.powervault.co.uk)
Powervault make intelligent, future-proof 
home battery storage solutions.
Piclo 
(www.piclo.energy)
Piclo is a software company on a mission 
to make electricity cheap, clean and 
abundant. Piclo Engage gives generators 
and consumers control over their energy 
by showing where electricity is generated 
and sold, what it costs and how those costs 
change over time.
Swan Barton 
(www.swanbarton.com)
Swanbarton is the original energy storage 
consultancy in the UK.
TNEI 
(www.tneigroup.com)
TNEI is an independent specialist energy 
consultancy providing technical, strategic, 
environmental and conventional and 
renewable energy sectors.
Upside Energy 
 (www.upside.energy) 
Upside Energy is helping to shape the 
energy transformation through pioneering 
digital solutions that support the smart 
energy management systems of the future. 
Verv 
(verv.energy)
Verv has developed a cutting-edge peer-
to-peer renewable energy trading platform 
utilising AI technology blockchain for 
trading.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand86

OVERVIEW
In 2015, Verv received funding from 
Innovate UK to develop a cut-
ting-edge peer-to-peer renewable 
energy trading platform, spearhead-
ing the first blockchain enabled P2P 
energy trading in the UK.
They based their innovation on high-
speed data acquisition and AI tech-
nology for understanding the con-
P2P ENERGY TRADING UK SUCCESS STORY: VERV ENERGY
sumption and production of energy, 
teamed with blockchain for trading.
It enables households with solar pan-
els to sell the excess energy that they 
generate directly to their neighbours, 
improving their ROI and incentivising 
uptake, improving access to cheaper, 
green energy for those that cannot 
afford renewables.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Verv
• Innovate UK
• Ofgem
TIMELINE
• 2015-2018
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• N/A
OUTCOME
In 2015, Verv were selected to be part of 
UK regulator Ofgem’s sandbox for new 
and disruptive technologies, providing 
regulatory flexibility to test their platform. 
With funding from Innovate UK, they set 
out to power a social housing community 
with sunshine using their energy trading 
platform in a Hackney estate with solar 
panels installed by Repowering, a social 
enterprise set up to facilitate community 
owned energy. 
In April 2018, Verv conducted the UK’s 
first peer-to-peer trade of energy on 
blockchain technology, and results have 
shown a potential to reduce energy bills 
and carbon emissions by 20%.
*Photo: Verv
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 87

The following section discusses the incredibly important 
transportation networks and movement of people, goods 
and services in the Thai capital. It describes how smart 
technology can play an important role in reshaping 
mobility in Bangkok, who is involved in the sector, and 
some of the intelligent solutions being proposed to 
address current mobility challenges.
Smart Mobility

Our cities rely on vast transportation networks, and 
understanding how to manage, improve and navigate 
them requires a lot of data. 
Smart mobility is about collecting, analysing and 
communicating real-time information about how we 
move through our cities so we can better understand 
how to reduce congestion and improve service quality.
As our transportation networks become ever more 
interconnected, relying on universal payment platforms 
and the constant flow of data, protection of personal 
data and the security of our communication networks 
become keys to success in the smart city.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Smart Mobility will intensively rely on the use of the 
Internet of Things (IoT) to facilitate communication 
between modes of transportation and user interfaces, 
via a wireless network. For example, GPS trackers 
in every bus or train, the strategic placement of 
roadway sensors so we can track the movement of 
vehicles throughout the city, and even the sourcing of 
information directly from our smart phones so we can 
monitor pedestrian and bicycle movements. 
Loads of data from connected smart devices will 
be collected and interchanged, through the city’s 
communications network, and then analysed to 
enhance traveler experience.
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
Smart mobility empowers citizens to make better 
transportation decisions so they can move through the 
city faster, safer and more easily. 
This is done by giving people more mobility options, and 
giving them control over those options. For example, 
integrated payment platforms or fare cards that can be 
used to pay for and use all forms of transportation or 
parking in the city makes the lives of citizens easier.
By opening up and sharing transportation data, 
citizens can take control over their mobility not just 
through choice, but through creating innovative new 
solutions to mobility challenges, creating new business 
opportunities in the process.
SMART CITIZENS
Smart mobility is an interconnection between digital 
technologies, urban design and city transportation 
policy. It is also the interplay of many different actors in 
the transportation network, from bus service operators, 
to taxi drivers, to the pedestrians crossing the street. 
Especially in the reform of legacy transportation 
systems, this interplay of actors and technologies 
inevitably leads to challenges and conflict. In this 
case, the right governance structure is critical to the 
success of smart mobility. It is necessary to have strong 
leadership and vision on the future mobility of the city, 
and clear communication to those involved so they can 
understand how to use and benefit from it.
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart Mobility
In a nutshell, Smart Mobility is about 
the integration of different modes of 
transportation and infrastructures in 
order to optimise the way we move 
around our cities. 
As a result, a range of benefits can 
be provided, from time-saving on 
commutes to pollution reduction. From 
the commuters’ view point, Smart 
Mobility allows the public easier access 
to a greater number of transportation 
options in more efficient, safer and 
cleaner ways. Smart Mobility plays a 
critial role in determinig our quality of 
life in cities, and if done right, it can 
help to reduce CO
2 emissions, alleviate 
traffic congestion and improve business 
efficiency and productivity.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 89

Smart Mobility in 
Bangkok
Bangkok is a city well known for its 
traffic congestion problems. With more 
than 10 million people living in the city, 
and an auto-oriented mobility network, 
it can be quite a challenge getting 
around the city, especially during rush 
hour. 
Historically, Bangkok had a robust 
streetcar network, as well as a vast 
web of canals used for water transport. 
However, as the city expanded, both 
streetcars, and many canals, were 
removed or paved over in favor of the 
automobile. 
Today, as is fitting for a city of such 
variety, there are many different 
forms of urban mobility. There is 159 
km of fixed-rail mass transit, currently 
in operation under three different 
service providers, the BTS (skytrain), 
MRT (underground) and Airport Rail 
Link. However, more than 40% of 
trips in Bangkok are made by private 
car, which is nearly double the use 
of public transportation (25%), and 
another nearly 25% is by private 
motorbike. Bus, controlled by Bangkok 
Mass Transit Authority (BMTA), is the 
most commonly used form of public 
transport, at 18% of total trips. The bus, 
however, is largely seen as a mode of 
travel for those that cannot afford other 
means, and the service quality is in 
major need of an upgrade.
Privately operated van transport is also 
common for commuters, as is riverboat 
ferry for those that need to traverse 
the Chao Phraya River. On the few 
canals that still exist, a small number of 
commuters still use canal boat taxis for 
their daily needs, and in the historical 
parts of the city, the quintessentially 
Thai
 tuk tuk is a common form of travel 
for short trips.
PAIN POINTS
Aside from traffic congestion, which is 
the biggest issue plaguing Bangkok’s 
transportation system, the lack of 
integration amongst its many forms 
of transport is a major drawback to 
urban mobility in the city. For most 
people, other forms of transportation 
are needed to reach public transport, 
such as a taxi and or motorcycle taxi, 
requiring payment for the first and last 
mile. This lack of a robust feeder system 
is one of the main reasons why driving 
cars is the preferred option for many in 
Bangkok. 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 
Bangkok’s mass transit is undergoing 
a massive expansion, with 10 additional 
lines, and nearly 400 km of new train 
lines expected to be in operation by 
2029.
29% of Bangkok 
households own a 
private automobile
households own a 
private automobile
29%
25% of trips in Bangkok 
are on public transit
25%
trips
23% of Bangkokians 
do not own any 
vehicle
do not own any 
vehicle
23%
Bangkok mass transit 
will expand by nearly 
400km by 2029
400 km
400 km
OPPORTUNITIES
Efforts to better manage traffic and to 
improve efficiency, convenience, and 
safety of transportation are underway, 
and the use of smart technology is 
considered as a key enabler. 
Consequently, the Ministry of 
Transport’s Office of Transport and 
Traffic Policy and Planning (OTP) has 
developed an Intelligent Transport 
System (ITS) Development Master 
Plan for Bangkok, in which it lays out a 
roadmap for various smart transport 
solutions, including integrated traffic 
data and control, integrated public 
transport service, and eventually 
enhanced Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS). 
ITS development is still in the early 
stages, and OTP and other key players 
in the smart mobility ecosystem are still 
exploring the optimal mix of solutions. 
Expertise and consultancy in intelligent 
transport system design and data 
integration and analysis are in need, 
and there are opportunities to introduce 
new business models and incentive 
schemes to develop the integrated 
public transport and MaaS platforms 
envisioned for the future of Bangkok.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
90

MOT is the key ministry in charge of 
national transportation policy and 
planning, and it plays a major role 
in the planning and development of 
Bangkok’s transportation system, both 
through its policy office, and as service 
operator through its various state-run 
enterprises. 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
Key Players in 
Smart Mobility
The Office of Transport and 
Traffic Policy and Planning 
(OTP) is responsible for 
creating transport and traffic 
policy. OTP overseas mass 
transit planning in Bangkok 
through the Mass Rapid Transit 
Master Plan, as well as the 
Intelligent Transport System 
(ITS) Development Master Plan.
BANGKOK 
METROPOLITAN 
ADMINISTRATION 
As a city government, the 
Transportation and Traffic 
Department of BMA has a 
responsibility in traffic supervision 
and development. BMA also grants 
concessions to transport service 
operators.
The Mass Rapid Transit 
Authority of Thailand (MRTA) 
is the state-run enterprise 
responsible for mass transit 
operation in Bangkok and other 
provinces. It currently operates 
the MRT’s two underground 
and elevated lines in the BMR, 
with ongoing construction and 
planned development of four 
additional lines.
The Bangkok Mass Transit 
Authority (BMTA) is 
the state-run enterprise 
responsible for bus operation 
in Bangkok.
The State Railway of 
Thailand (SRT) is the state-
owned enterprise responsible 
for national rail operation, 
which includes operation 
of the Airport Rail Link, 
an express commuter rail 
connecting Suvarnabhumi 
Airport to the central city.
The Expressway Authority 
of Thailand (EXAT) is 
the state-run enterprise 
responsible for operating 
Thailand’s controlled-access 
highways.
BANGKOK MASS 
TRANSIT SYSTEM
The Bangkok Mass Transit System, or 
BTS, is a privately held company which 
operates the elevated mass transit 
system in Bangkok under a concession 
granted by BMA. The BTS currently 
operates two lines, the Sukhumvit and 
Silom lines, with planned extensions on 
both.
ROYAL THAI POLICE (RTP)
The Royal Thai Police (RTP) Public 
Police Division also plays a major role in 
traffic-related policing duties and traffic 
control, including road safety and traffic 
violation enforcement, as well as traffic 
flow monitoring.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
91

Intelligent Traffic 
Control
Bangkok is infamous for its traffic congestion, a 
problem that has plagued the city for years. While 
investments into public transportation will likely 
alleviate some congestion, Bangkok requires 
comprehensive solutions to its traffic problems, 
which includes intelligent traffic control.
Intelligent traffic control integrates various 
technologies - communication technology, automated 
data collection technology, computing technology and 
data analysis - to first collect information in order to 
understand and manage traffic flow, and utilising the 
collected data to adjust and automate traffic control 
mechanisms, improving traffic flow and improving 
comfort and safety of travelers. 
BENEFITS
Intelligent traffic control can help alleviate congestion 
problems on the road, reducing the amount of time 
travelers spend on the road and stuck idling in traffic. 
This reduced idle time will also help improve air 
quality, as idling cars or those moving at low speeds 
are major sources of carbon emissions.
RELEVANCE
Bangkok’s traffic management is split amongst 
numerous actors, and traffic data is not integrated or 
acted upon in a coordinated manner. The integration 
and central control of Bangkok traffic is a major 
priority for the Ministry of Transport, with initial 
studies underway, and expected implementation over 
the next 2-7 years.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
Intelligent Traffic Sign for Introducing Alternate Route
OTP recently implemented an Intelligent Traffic Sign 
programme around Bangkok to provide real-time 
traffic information to drivers by installing electronic 
dashboards along main streets that display colored 
lines to inform the different level of traffic condition.
In addition, CCTVs were installed near the intelligent 
traffic signs to monitor the traffic from both upstream 
and downstream directions, and to identify level of 
traffic congestion. Together with traffic information 
from Google Map Server, alternate faster routes will 
be recommended through the Variable Message Sign 
(VMS).
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand92

Traffic Data 
Collection
Wireless 
Communications Cloud Platform Traffic Monitoring & 
Control System
Traffic Control 
Authority
BMA
RTP
OTP
Solution Provider
BMA
RTP
OTP
Solution Provider
BMA
RTP
Traffic control 
authority 
responsible for 
installing the traffic 
data collection 
devices (sensors and 
CCTV) in strategic 
locations throughout 
the transportation 
network
National, wireless 
telecommunications 
networks will enable 
data to pass from 
data collection to 
cloud platform
Traffic data from 
multiple sources 
is collected and 
integrated on 
a central cloud 
platform
Traffic data is 
analysed in real-
timeusing advanced 
analytics and AI, 
and some traffic 
management 
decisions are 
automated
Traffic authorities 
utilise outputs from 
the traffic control 
system to monitor 
and control traffic 
signal timings for 
more efficient 
traffic flow
Traffic control 
system design 
and consulting, 
technology provider 
or procurement 
support
-
Cloud platform 
solution provider 
for dedicated traffic 
control system
Data analytics and 
automation system 
design and 
operation
Data utilisation 
capacity building 
and technical 
assistance
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
The traffic control authorities in Bangkok, which 
are Bangkok Metropolitan Authority (BMA) and 
Royal Thai Police (RTP), as well as Office of 
Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning (OTP), 
who assist in piloting intelligent transportation 
solutions, will collect data through existing 
or newly installed sensors and CCTV devices 
throughout the transportation network that detect 
and record vehicle movements.
This data is then integrated through a central 
cloud platform and analysed in a traffic monitoring 
and control system for traffic flow insights. This 
central traffic monitoring and control centre will 
utilise data analytics and automation to assist 
in traffic management decision, adjusting to 
the traffic situation in real-time, and helping to 
optimise traffic signal timings to improve the flow 
of traffic.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
One of the UK’s strengths is in intelligent transport 
solutions and integrated transport system design. 
Intelligent traffic control systems are still in the 
early stages in Bangkok, and full integration is still 
difficult to achieve. 
UK organisations and companies have an 
opportunity to assist OTP and other Bangkok 
traffic authorities at the system design phase, 
assisting in technology procurement as well 
as data analytics and automation system 
architecture, bringing in suppliers throughout the 
service value chain.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERS
DESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Traffic Control 
Authority
Traffic Data 
Collection
Wireless 
Communications
Cloud Platform Traffic Monitoring & 
Control System
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 93

The UK is home to some of 
the most advanced transport 
networks in the world and is at the 
forefront of smart mobility testing 
and applications. 
UK mobility companies and 
organisations offer services 
around the world, helping cities 
and transportation operators 
innovate and transform their cities 
into more sustainable, livable and 
economically prosperous places 
to live. 
What can the UK offer?
• Intelligent traffic management
• Advanced traffic data analytics 
and insights
• CCTV data integration
• Automation and AI technology 
and support
• Signal control optimisation
• Transportation operations 
management and customer 
experience design
WHY THE UK?
AGD Systems 
(www.agd-systems.com)
AGD Systems develops intelligent traffic 
systems that aim to improve the safety, 
efficiency, and the carbon footprint of 
transport environments.
Chipside 
(www.chipside.com)
Chipside is a leader in the world of 
parking and traffic management IT.
Global Reach 
(www.globalreachtech.com)
Wi-Fi software, service and analytics for 
the world’s leading service providers 
and their customers across multiple 
markets including travel & transport. 
The platform supports billions of 
authentications and concurrent users, 
using hundreds of devices and networks. 
Currently in use on TfL.
FlowX 
(www.flowx.tech)
FlowX develops technology that filters 
the footage from existing CCTV cameras 
to provide cities with traffic information.
Goodvision 
(www.goodvisionlive.com)
Goodvision develops technology which 
utilises AI to provide analysis on vehicle 
traffic data.
Immense Simulations 
(www.immense.ai)
Immense Simulations develops city 
simulation software for the transport 
industry, aiming to improve decision 
making, and provide insight into the 
moving of goods and people.
Resonate 
(www.resonate.tech)
A powerful digital platform combined 
with a highly skilled team delivering the 
best solutions for signalling control, 
traffic management, operations 
management and customer experience.
Tracsis 
(www.tracsistraffic.com)
Leading international provider of 
transport surveys, passenger analytics, 
event traffic management and GIS 
location data.
Transport for London 
(tfl.gov.uk)
Transport for London (TfL) is a world 
leader in integrated transport innovation 
and many aspects of the TfL model have 
been adopted by other cities around the 
world. TfL partners with cities, regions, 
consultancies and transport operators 
around the world to deploy our unique, 
specialist expertise and develop 
sustainable answers to transport 
challenges.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand94

Smart Public Transport
As noted above, Bangkok has many different forms of 
public transport, such as the urban rail transit system, 
public bus, boats, serviced motorcycles, taxis, as well 
as shared mobility like Grab. These services are run by 
multiple operators and there is no current integration of 
fares or data for digital payments or trip planning. This 
causes invonvenience to commuters as people must 
carry multiple cards, and cash, and it is often not clear 
what the most efficient method of public transport is to 
get from one point to another, which in turn discourages 
public transport use.
Smart public transport is part of a broader ecosystem 
referred to as Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS), which 
ties together all mobility options in the city, often on 
a single platform, to provide real-time information for 
trip planning, unified fare payment, and integrated 
commuter information for further insights into service 
operation and improvements. 
BENEFITS
Smart public transport makes mobility in the city more 
convenient, improving quality of life for citizens. It 
encourages transit ridership, incentivising less reliance 
on private vehicles, helping to reduce traffic congestion. 
By unifying all forms of transport, insights on mobility 
demand can also be gained for better optimisation of 
transport networks. 
RELEVANCE
Smart public transport is one of the best ways to combat 
traffic congestion in a city, which is why it has been given 
high priority by the Ministry of Transport’s Intelligent 
Transport System (ITS) Master Plan.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
Real-time Public Transport Tracking and 
Navigation System
ViaBus is a mobile application which was 
developed by a startup from Chulalongkorn 
University, in cooperation with Bangkok Mass 
Transit Authority (BMTA). 
The app provides real-time information of public 
transportation, specifically the bus system. The 
app will enable you to gain information of bus 
routes, bus lines and bus stops. In addition, the 
location information of buses with a GPS device 
will be integrated which would allow you to learn 
about estimated waiting times and also the 
traffic status. Currently, the app has only partial 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
coverage of the bus system, and does not include any 
payment or trip planning capabilities.
Bangkok’s Spider Card
OTP announced a common ticketing initiative in 2016 
called the 
Mangmoom (Spider) Card, and both BTS and 
MRT signed an MOU in 2007 to implement the system. 
Since then, other transportation operators, such as 
BMTA buses, and Expressway Authority of Thailand 
(EXAT), and public boat taxis have expressed a desire 
to join the unified ticketing system. 
However, delays have kept the service from coming 
to fruition for close to a decade, as fare sharing 
agreements have met roadblocks again and again.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
96

Public Transport 
Operators
Smart Public 
Transport Platform
Common Ticketing & 
Payment System
Unified Transportation 
Application
 OTP
Service Provider
Transport Operators
Service Provider
Commuters
Service Provider
All relevant public 
transport operators in 
Bangkok, including BTS, 
MRT, BMTA, Airport Rail 
Link, Expressway Authority, 
and other mobility service 
providers like Grab, boat 
taxis, motorcycle taxis 
utilise smart technology to 
track their services
Data on service operation, 
like schedule, location, 
delays, and costs are 
unified on a single smart 
transport platform
Common ticketing system 
is arranged in which a 
single, progressive fare 
system is used based on 
length of trip and choice 
of service operator; 
Revenue is shared 
accordingly
Commuters access the 
smart public transport 
system through a unified 
application or card that 
allow seamless trip 
planning and journeys 
through any of the 
transport operators in the 
system
System design 
consultation
Platform design and 
development, geographic 
information system and 
data analytics service 
provider
Common ticketing 
standards and fare 
settings consultation
Application design
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
The smart public transport ecosystem depends 
on the cooperation and interconnection of various 
parties, including public transport operators, as 
well as commuters, platform developers, and data 
scientists.
In Bangkok, OTP will host a platform that unifies 
services for all public transport operators in 
Bangkok, including BTS, MRT, BMTA, Airport Rail 
Link, EXAT and potentially other mobility service 
providers like Grab, boat taxis, motorcycle taxies, 
etc. All operators must share relevant data with 
a platform developer to create a unified smart 
public transport platform that includes geographic 
information system (GIS) tracking and real-time 
operations insights. 
This platform is then tied to a unified ticketing 
system, which requires buy-in from all operators 
to a common fare structure for all (or a package 
of) services. Commuters are then able to access 
information from the smart public transport 
platform through a single application that includes 
journey planning and payment.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
London has one of the most well known smart 
transportation platforms and common ticketing 
systems in the world, in the Oyster Card. Transport 
for London (TfL) and other UK service providers 
are well positioned to assist OTP and Bangkok 
transport operators in designing a mutually 
beneficial smart public transportation system, 
including platform design and development, as 
well as common ticketing standards and fare 
setting.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Unified 
Transportation 
Application
Public Transport 
Operators
Smart Transport 
Platform
Common Ticketing & 
Payment System
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 97

UK transport operators are at the 
forefront of smart public transport 
operations and Mobility-as-a-
Service (MaaS) innovation.
The robust public transport 
systems in the UK have 
bred expertise across the 
transportation ecosystem, and 
UK organisations and companies 
have assisted cities and service 
operators around the world 
with upgrades to their existing 
transport systems.
What can the UK offer?
• Integrated payment systems
• Smart ticketing
• Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS)
• Smart parking and traffic 
management 
• On-demand and autonomous 
mobility solutions
• Geographic information 
systems (GIS) for transport
WHY THE UK?
Conigital 
(www.conigital.com)
Conigital are transport infrastructure 
integrators developing Mobility-as-
a-Service, IoT sensors and Artificial 
Intelligence solutions for the next 
generation of zero emission driverless 
vehicles.
Globalreach Technologies 
(www.globalreachtech.com)
Wi-Fi software, service and analytics for 
the world’s leading service providers 
and their customers across multiple 
markets including travel & transport. 
The platform supports billions of 
authentications and concurrent 
users, using hundreds of devices and 
networks. Currently in use on TfL.
Masabi 
(www.masabi.com)
Justride is a Software-as-a-Service 
(SaaS) ticketing platform developed by 
Masabi. Suitable for mobile ticketing 
systems and to enable Mobility as a 
Service (MaaS) or for an account-based 
full fare collection solution using a 
contactless bank card, mobile device or 
smartcard.
Restrata 
(www.restrata.com)
Principal provider of innovative security 
and technology consulting solutions.
Stage Intelligence 
(www.stageintelligence.co.uk)
Ground- breaking artificial intelligence 
solutions to solve some of the most 
complex challenges within the shared 
mobility ecosystem such as bike share 
schemes.
TBS Mobility 
(www.tbsmobility.com)
Using IoT, AI and mobile, TBS helps 
choose the right route to improve 
passenger experience and journey 
times, keep services running smoothly 
and ensure employees are productive, 
engaged and empowered.
Transport for London 
(tfl.gov.uk)
Transport for London (TfL) is a 
world leader in integrated transport 
innovation and many aspects of the 
TfL model have been adopted by other 
cities around the world. TfL partners 
with cities, regions, consultancies and 
transport operators around the world to 
deploy our unique, specialist expertise 
and develop sustainable answers to 
transport challenges.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
98

OVERVIEW
Starting in early 2019, the UK FCDO 
Global Future Cities Programme 
partnered with Ho Chi Minh City to 
provide technical assistance and 
implementation of a pilot project to 
a develop a Smart Ticketing System 
(STS) in Ho Chi Minh City. 
SMART PUBLIC TRANSPORT UK SUCCESS STORY: 
HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM
The project is expected to have a 
long-term impact on public transpor-
tation development of Ho Chi Minh 
City by increasing the ridership of 
public transportation, ensuring the 
integration of different modes of pub-
lic transport such as MRT, BRT, Buses 
and Ferry Boats in the near future 
and enhancing the level of services. 
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Ho Chi Minh City
• UK FCDO Global Future Cities 
Programme
• UN-Habitat
TIMELINE
• Ongoing
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• N/A
EXPECTED OUTCOMES
The project is designed to achieve the 
following sub-objectives, as a result of 
creating STS in Ho Chi Minh City: 
• Improve the quality of public 
transport
• Increase the ridership of public 
transport
• Provide comprehensive data to 
support decision-making process 
of government and stakeholders 
in related-issues
• Improve the capacity of city 
authorities in delivering and 
managing public transport
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 99

The following section describes how smart technologies 
can positively influence the way Bangkokians live their lives 
through three fundamental avenues: better public health 
practices and access to healthcare, improved public safety 
and security, and smarter ways of interacting with our 
built environment to encourage healthier more sustainable 
lifestyles.
Smart Living

Smart living solutions are all about the power of the 
Internet of Things (IoT) connecting data flows from our 
bodies, homes and urban systems.
While these data can provide incredible insights into 
our daily lives, helping us lead healthier and more 
sustainably, it also brings up important questions about 
personal data privacy and security. 
Cyber attacks have already become a threat 
in our modern world, and with the increasing 
interconnectedness of our urban systems, 
cybersecurity protocols and regulations will be vital in 
ensuring the success of the smart city.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
In essence, smart living is the innovation of using 
technology to link together everything from our 
personal health to the indoor environments of our 
homes and offices, to our healthcare providers, 
and even to our urban infrastructure. Smart living 
innovations help us understand how to live healthier 
lives, and gives us important information about 
impending security crises or emergencies in the city. 
This interconnectedness requires immensely powerful 
and stable communications networks to ensure the 
steady flow of data from nearly every facet of our urban 
lives.
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
Citizens stand to benefit greatly from advances in smart 
living solutions. Personal health monitoring devices 
can help people track their own health and provide 
automated alerts to their doctors in the case of an 
emergency, saving lives. Smart building management 
technology can save on energy costs, improve indoor 
air quality, and make our lives more convenient and 
comfortable. Security and disaster alerts can ensure we 
are aware of risks to our safety, and help us feel more 
secure.
At the same time, if the data and technologies that 
control the smart city are not made accessible to all 
citizens, these benefits will not be felt by many.
SMART CITIZENS
Smart living principles are built upon the cooperation of 
many different stakeholders, as we move to connect our 
own bodies with the built environment and our urban 
institutions in new and powerful ways. 
For example, moving healthcare into the digital world 
requires the cooperation of all healthcare provider in the 
system, if it is to be truly impactful. Another example are 
early warning systems for environmental conditions and 
disaster event, requiring the coordination of many state 
run agencies and institutions responsible for getting 
people information.
These solutions demand stable and transparent 
governance to ensure buy-in across the city.
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart Living
Living in a metropolis is being 
transformed significantly due to 
lifestyle changes and technology 
advancements. In consequence, Smart 
Living is a new trend highlighting 
opportunities and benefits from new 
ways of living in the city.
Smart living solutions highlight ways 
to improve people’s health and access 
to healthcare through the power 
of technology. It is about providing 
modern systems to monitor and alert 
us to criminal activities or impending 
natural disasters like floods and fires. 
Smart living is also about improving 
the facilities we spend most of our 
time, our homes and workplaces, 
through automation and cutting edge 
design practices.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 101

Smart Living in 
Bangkok
The concepts of Smart Living have 
been gaining momentum in both the 
public and private sectors due to the 
unmitigated urban growth in Thailand. 
As the largest urban area in Thailand, 
Bangkok is still undergoing further 
expansion, bringing about various 
transformative changes that have had 
influential impacts on citizens’ lives 
and health. 
In the face of unpredictable events, 
like the 2011 floods, or the 2020 global 
pandemic, emphasis has been placed 
on improving disaster preparedness 
and community resilience, which 
requires new solutions for monitoring 
and alerting us to potential risks, like 
early disaster warning systems and 
integrated citywide CCTV networks.
The growth of intelligent building 
management systems and high 
performance buildings has also been 
steady in recent years, partially 
brought about by government policies 
and public institutions that have 
advocated for improved building 
standards, but also due to demand 
in the market for technologically 
driven, modern housing and office 
space, leading to many of Thailand’s 
top property developers leading the 
charge in terms of green building 
practices. 
HEALTH
Thailand is home to Southeast Asia’s 
second largest healthcare market, 
and already houses some of the 
most advanced healthcare facilities 
in the region. However, healthcare 
services are not equitablly distributed 
throughout the country, or even within 
Bangkok. Though Thailand has public 
healthcare for its citizens, services 
at most local public hospitals are not 
comparable to the most well-funded 
national hospitals, or to private 
hospitals. This has brought about 
demand for more varied healthcare 
options through the use of telehealth 
technology, as well as support for 
personal healthcare devices that can 
assist populations with monitoring 
their own health and preventative 
medicine.
One of the largest challenges plaguing 
Thailand’s public health system is the 
lack of integrated health information 
system, making it difficult for patients 
to access health services at different 
hospitals, and causing delays or 
repetition in healthcare provision.
Thailand is 
Southeast Asia’s 
second largest 
healthcare 
market
Commercial 
buildings account 
for nearly 40% of 
Thailand’s energy 
consumption
2nd
largest
healthcare
40%
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand102

SAFETY AND SECURITY
Thailand is no stranger to catastrophic 
natural disasters, or public security 
emergencies. Though Bangkok is a 
regular victim to flooding events, the 
2011 floods were in a class of their own. 
Though more than £6.2 billion was 
spent on repairs and rehabilitation in 
the city, the fallout from these floods 
was much more than economic. 
The governments preparedness and 
response to the floods raised much ire 
in the general public and the disaster 
mitigation and response sector, and 
a perceived lack of transparency and 
incompetent decision making was seen 
throughout. 
Though natural disasters themselves 
cannot be entirely blamed on the 
government, there has been a renewed 
emphasis on improving disaster 
preparedness in the nation’s capital, 
and resources are being put towards 
the development of a disaster decision 
support system to help monitor 
weather, predict potential flood events, 
and better alert the public to personal 
safety and security risks.
Another element of the push to 
improve public safety and security 
outcomes is the investment into 
integrated surveillance systems, as 
more than 50,000 CCTVs have been 
installed around Bangkok by various 
stakeholders.
BUILT ENVIRONMENT 
In 2018, Thailand put in place a new 
building energy code (BEC) that 
required new construction to meet 
much more rigorous energy efficiency 
standards, and mandated new design 
and management techniques for 
commercial buildings over a certain 
size.
The Ministry of Energy has also 
partnered with the Thai Green Building 
Institute (TGBI), an independent 
body pushing for green building 
standardisation in Thailand’s 
development sector, to start the Smart 
Cities-Clean Energy Award, given to 
projects the meet certain standards of 
energy efficient building design.
These two developments represent a 
move towards more advanced building 
construction and management in 
the sector that is also being met by 
high-end demand for homes and 
offices that include smart, connected 
appliances and building management 
systems. This represents a growing 
opportunity for companies with cutting 
edge construction management 
and building design expertise, in 
particular with building information 
management (BIM), IoT connected 
housing appliances and devices, and 
high-performance building design, 
more generally.
£6.2 billion
£6.2 billion
was spent on repairs and rehabilitation following 
the 2011 floods in Bangkok
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 103

MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Included in the broad range of 
responsibilities of the Ministry 
of Interior (MOI) and its related 
departments are local administration, 
internal security, land management, 
public works, and disaster management. 
Because of this, policies and actions of 
MOI impact nearly all decisions involving 
the built environment.
Key Players in 
Smart Living
The Department of Public 
Works and Town & Country 
Planning (DPT) is responsible 
for building design and 
construction controls and 
compliance, as well as 
supporting local administrative 
authorities with formulating 
and supervising land use policy, 
infrastructure development, 
and land readjustment. 
The Department of Disaster 
Prevention and Mitigation 
(DDPM) is the central agency 
responsible for disaster 
management and prevention, 
including policy formulation 
and information technology 
development.
MINISTRY OF 
PUBLIC HEALTH
The Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) 
is responsible for overseeing the 
development of the national health 
system, including health innovation 
in both the public and private sector. 
In 2017, MoPH deployed the National 
eHealth Strategy to reform and improve 
data use for medical records access 
and collaboration between healthcare 
providers and patients.
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL 
DEVELOPMENT & 
HUMAN SECURITY
The Ministry of Social Development 
& Human Security (MSDHS) 
is responsible for social welfare 
programmes that include public 
housing and community development, 
through the National Housing Authority 
(NHA) and Community Organizations 
Development Institute (CODI).
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
The Ministry of Energy (MOE) has 
developed numerous programmes 
promoting energy efficiency in the built 
environment that involve standards 
and technology promotion for smarter 
building management and advanced 
building design.
The Department of Alternative Energy 
Development and Efficiency (DEDE) 
partnered with the Architect Council of 
Thailand and the Engineering Institute 
of Thailand to develop the new Building 
Energy Code (BEC), which requires new 
construction to meet requirements for 
building materials, HVAC, lighting, hot 
water, and renewable energy.
BANGKOK 
METROPOLITAN 
ADMINISTRATION 
The BMA departments most involved 
in Smart Living are the City Planning 
Department, Social Development 
Department, Fire and Rescue 
Department, Public Works Department, 
Medical Service Department, Health 
Department, and Department of 
Drainage and Sewerage.
ROYAL THAI POLICE (RTP)
The Royal Thai Police (RTP) is 
responsible for safety and security 
related to crime prevention in Bangkok, 
and are in the process of developing 
an extensive, citywide integrated CCTV 
network.
THAI GREEN BUILDING 
INSTITUTE
The Thai Green Building Institute (TGBI) 
is an independent industry group 
working together with MOE to develop 
green building standards and smart city 
development initiatives.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
104

geographic information systems (GIS) and hydrological 
models. These technologies will further supplement 
the BMA’s investments by adding productive value to 
its existing meteorological gauges, weather prediction 
services and extensive network of water pumps. Finally, 
the DSS will serve to institutionalise flood management 
practices led by the BMA, ensuring knowledge 
and expertise is transferred within and across the 
organisation.
This two-year project aims to achieve four ‘proof of 
concepts’ in the development of flood hazard maps, 
improved rainfall forecasting, evaluation of water 
retention strategies, and citizen communication 
strategies for disaster preparedness and response.
Smart Disaster 
Management System
Natural disasters, particularly flooding, are a regular 
threat and annual occurrence in Bangkok. Around 
the world, cities have implemented early warning 
systems based on real-time data monitoring and 
communication, alerting residents sooner when 
a disaster event occurs, and aiding emergency 
responders with swift and accurate information.
A smart disaster management system involves 
networks of environmental sensors to monitor 
and predict disaster events, and uses emerging 
technology to help improve flood management 
decisions during the preparedness, forecasting and 
monitoring stages.
BENEFITS
The biggest benefit of implementing a smart disaster 
management system is the reduction of mortality 
during disaster events. By providing earlier and 
more accurate alerts, people are able to react 
more effectively, saving lives as well as property. 
By collecting more extensive information on 
environmental conditions, local authorities are also 
able to make better, evidence-based decisions.
RELEVANCE
The BMA has already invested into and established 
a Flood Control Centre under the Department of 
Drainage and Sewerage. By developing a smart 
disaster management system, the BMA will be 
able to better utilise this centre for improved 
decision-making based on more accurate data and 
transparency.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
Decision Support System (DSS) for Flood Management
In 2019, the BMA partnered with the UK Prosperity 
Fund Global Future Cities Programme to develop an 
improved decision support system (DSS) for flood 
management. BMA recognises that the introduction 
of a new flood management Decision-Support System 
(DSS) will improve its ability to identify solutions to 
flood adaptation and mitigation, facilitate objective 
and evidence-based decision-making, and justify 
flood management decisions based on logical and 
transparent approaches.
DSS will take advantage of newly emerging 
technologies in remote sensing, open-source mapping, 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand106

Rainfall Forecasting 
/ Urban Water 
Monitoring
Flood Control 
Centre / Pumps and 
Gates Control
Flood Monitoring 
System Online Platform Flood Data Service
BMA
Thai Meteorological 
Department (TMD)
Hydro Informatics 
Institute (HII)
BMA Department 
of Drainage and 
Sewerage
BMA 
Hydro Informatics 
Institute (HII)
Service Provider
BMA
 
Hydro Informatics 
Institute (HII)
Service Provider
Public and Private 
Sectors
• Decision 
Making
• Early Warning 
and Monitoring
• Responders
Through the use 
of remote sensing, 
geographic 
information 
systems (GIS) 
and hydrological 
models, BMA and 
its partners collect 
more accurate 
environmental data
Data is collected and 
processed through 
a Flood Control 
Centre before being 
communicated to 
the Flood Monitoring 
System which 
helps adjust water 
pumps and gates 
accordingly
An interactive and 
automated flood 
monitoring system 
will display real-
time conditions and 
support improved 
risk-informed 
decision making
Relevant data will 
be hosted on a 
cloud-based open 
data platform for 
further analysis and 
transparency
Both public and 
private sector 
stakeholders will 
benefit from early 
warning alerts 
and access to 
accurate data to aid 
in preparedness, 
response and relief 
efforts
System Monitoring 
and Data Collection 
Consulting and 
Technical Assistance
Solution Provider 
and Technical 
Assistance
Solution Provider Solution Provider -
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
For this example, the BMA is focused on a 
flood management disaster management 
system. The BMA works with meteorological 
and hydrological systems experts to collect 
and track relevant information related to 
rainfall and urban water levels. This data is 
then processed through a central flood control 
centre for 24 hour monitoring and assistance in 
water pump and gate control decisions. Data is 
then communicated to and hosted on a cloud-
based open data platform for further use and 
analysis within both BMA and the general public, 
supporting solution development for flood 
response and future mitigation. This data also 
helps inform the public through early warning 
alerts and other relevant information before, 
during and after flood events. 
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
While BMA has already invested heavily 
into flood management systems, and has 
extensive experience dealing with its local flood 
networks, UK companies can and are assisting 
with expertise in environmental systems 
management and integrated data-driven 
decision support systems.
Flooding is also a problem in many other 
provinces and municipalities throughout 
Thailand. Technical assistance and IT solution 
providers may find other willing partners with 
other local authorities, as well as national 
agencies like the Department of Disaster 
Prevention and Mitigation (DDPM). 
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Rainfall Forecasting
Urban Water 
Monitoring
Flood Control 
Centre
Flood Monitoring 
System
Fl d M it i
Pumps and Gates 
Control
Online Platform
 Flood Data Service 
/ Early Warning 
System
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 107

• Sansiri Home Service Application - the application 
provides residents properties-related information, 
such as notifications from the property 
management, payment statuses, utility bills and 
repair status reports, which allow them to manage 
their properties efficiently. Also it allows residents 
to be able to control in-property facilities, such as 
lighting and air conditioning remotely.
• Sansiri AI Box – the box is an AI personal assistant, 
based on the technology from Amazon Web 
Services. It allows residents to control in-property 
facilities and home appliances by using voice 
commands in Thai, and be integrated as part of the 
Home Service Application.
Smart Building 
Design
Modern housing and building design goes far beyond 
merely a physical structure, and has expanded to include 
the supply of products, services and solutions to improve 
spaces for living, working and community health.
Smart building design starts at the early stages of 
development, integrating technology and sustainable 
design techniques to optimise building performance 
and operations. A smart building connects home and 
office appliances with building management systems 
to generate a tremendous amount of data that is 
collected, integrated and analysed for automated control 
of building systems and equipment, including access, 
lighting, energy, air conditioning and air quality, security, 
hygiene, and more.
BENEFITS
Smart buildings can significantly increase energy 
efficiency in a building, simultaneously reducing a 
building’s operation costs and carbon footprint. Owners 
and tenants can also attain newfound insights into 
how they interact with their homes and offices, helping 
to self-regulate energy and water use, and control 
indoor air quality for a more comfortable and healthy 
environment.
RELEVANCE
Newly instated regulations have placed requirements on 
new construction to integrate smart building techniques 
for energy efficiency, and demand for smart building 
design is strong, particularly amongst private property 
developers that are increasingly integrating smart and 
green building techniques in their projects.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
Sansiri Smart Home
Sansiri is one of Thailand’s property developers who 
has embraced emerging trends and technologies 
in their properties. Recognising the role of digital 
technologies, like Internet of Things (IoT), WiFi 
network communication, and touch-point smart 
devices, in changing the way of living, Sansiri has 
developed and introduced its own smart home 
devices, Siri LifeTech, to residents. 
The Siri LifeTech suite includes a range of state-
of-the-art technologies, from mobile app with AI 
to smart gadgets, and let them work together 
seamlessly to enhance living experiences of 
residents. Applications include:
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand108

Smart Building Platform Communication Gateways 
& Smart Sensors
Building 
Automation System Security & Safety
Property Developers / Owners
Solution Providers
Property Developers / 
Owners
Solution Providers
Solution / 
Technology 
Providers
Solution / 
Technology 
Providers
Some private property developers 
have developed their own smart 
building platforms, including 
proprietary technology that 
enables residents and building 
operators to remotely control 
building performance through a 
central, cloud-based management 
system. In other cases, third-parties 
provide comprehensive solution 
platforms.
Communication gateways 
tied to remote sensing 
devices allow for real-
time analysis and control 
of building automation 
and security systems. 
These devices are often 
proprietary to the smart 
building platform provider .
Specialist 
technology 
providers for 
building automation 
systems for HVAC, 
lighting, facility 
control, elevators 
and more
Specialist 
technology 
providers for 
security and 
safety systems for 
parking, CCTV, fire 
protection, access 
control and more
Platform provider or developer 
Smart building design services 
(including: energy efficiency design, 
building information management 
(BIM), automation, etc.)
Solution Provider Solution Provider Solution Provider
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
Smart building design involves integration of the 
many different systems of building operation. 
The simplified model to the right emphasises 
the two major elements of smart buildings: 
building automation, and security & safety 
system control. Through the integration of 
smart IoT devices, the various equipment and 
operations involved in these systems can be 
tracked and monitored through a centralised 
building management system. Residents 
and building operators can then access this 
information to monitor and control building 
operations through cloud-based remote control 
applications. 
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
Leading UK architecture and engineering 
firms are already assisting private property 
developers in Thailand with smart building 
design services, ranging from sustainable 
building design, building system design, 
equipment sourcing, building information 
management (BIM) consulting, and more. 
The market for these types of design services 
will continue to grow in years to come, as high 
performance buildings become more of the 
norm with increasing regulatory requirements 
for energy efficiency and environmental quality 
in buildings, as well as strong demand within 
the real estate market for smart living and work 
spaces that promote sustainability and comfort.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Smart Monitoring & 
Maintenance
Remote Device 
Controller
Building Management 
System
Communication 
Gateways
Cloud Platform
SMART BUILDING PLATFORM
IoT Devices / 
Smart Sensors
HVAC System
Lighting System
Facility Control 
System
Elevator System
BUILDING AUTOMATION
Parking System
CCTV System
Fire Protection 
System
Access Control 
System
SECURITY & SAFETY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 109

The UK is home to some of the world’s 
leading engineering and architectural 
firms, such as Foster + Partners and 
Arup, which have been involved in 
many of the world’s most high-profile 
low-carbon design and construction 
projects. UK companies can help ensure 
that buildings are energy efficient, 
not only through construction but the 
entirety of their operation, reducing an 
asset’s carbon footprint and in turn its 
impact on climate change. 
What can the UK offer?
• Engineering and architectural 
services for efficient design
• Modeling and software tools for 
more effective project design
• Lighting solutions and supply of 
HVAC equipment
• Project management and 
logistics for the construction 
process and site laser scanning
• Design and consultancy services 
related to district heating
• Products and services related to 
post occupancy
WHY THE UK?
Aedas 
(www.aedas.com)
Architectural design firm specialising 
in urban design and masterplanning, 
architecture, interiors and landscapes.
Arup 
(www.arup.com)
Arup operates a design and engineering 
firm that works on a range of creative 
projects across the built environment 
sector. 
Ash Projects 
(www.ashprojects.com)
Real-time occupancy monitoring to manage 
dynamically climate control and integrate 
with existing Building Management Systems 
and utilise historic data to better plan 
energy consumption.
Atamate 
(www.atamate.com)
IoT platform which reduces energy, 
maintenance and management in buildings 
while increasing the occupants security and 
comfort.
Atelier Ten 
(www.atelierten.com)
Atelier Ten are award-winning consultants 
offering environmental design consulting, 
masterplan sustainability consulting, health 
and wellness design, energy analysis, façade 
optimisation, benchmarking (WELL, TREES, 
LEED, Green Mark, Fitwel, Smart City 
Thailand, TRUE, EDGE, and others), carbon 
strategic management and corporate 
sustainability report including Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI). 
Bead Technology 
(www.enbead.com)
An AI-based system that analyzes, 
optimises and operates your building’s 
energy management, marketing strategies 
and operations by measuring real-time 
occupancy data.
Benoy 
(www.benoy.com)
Specialise principally in master planning, 
architecture and interiors, focusing on 
‘creative commerciality’ to solve problems 
and unlock potential.
Beringar 
(www.beringar.co.uk)
Beringar develops sensors that utilise 
machine learning technology to provide 
users with metrics on how they use their 
space at home, such as typical number of 
people and temperature.
Broadway Malyan 
(www.broadwaymalyan.com)
Global architecture, urbanism and design 
practice dedicated to creating cities, 
buildings and places that will provide a 
lasting legacy.
BuroHappold 
(www.burohappold.com)
International, multidisciplinary engineering 
consultancy delivering creative, value-led 
building and city solutions.
Centrica 
(www.centrica.com)
Centrica is a market leader in Connected 
Home products, and our Hive smart 
thermostat and other services help our 
customers manage their energy use.
Chapman Taylor 
(www.chapmantaylor.com)
Global architects, masterplanners, interior 
designers and smart city consultants.
Energenie 
(www. energenie4u.co.uk)
Energenie develops, designs and 
manufactures energy-efficient smart homes 
products.
Foster + Partners 
(www.fosterandpartners.com)
Foster + Partners Thailand is the Bangkok-
based entity of Foster + Partners’ London-
headquartered global studio, renowned for 
architecture, urbanism and design, rooted in 
sustainability.
Mott MacDonald 
(www.mottmac.com)
A global engineering, management and 
development consultancy
Restrata 
(www.restrata.com) 
Principal provider of innovative security and 
technology consulting solutions.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand110

OVERVIEW
In 2017, Arup was appointed as head 
engineering company responsible 
for developing a sustainability plan 
for the Mexico City New International 
Airport (NAICM). 
The terminal design was conducted in 
collaboration with Foster + Partners 
(UK based) and FR-EE (Mexico based). 
SMART BUILDING DESIGN UK SUCCESS STORY: 
MEXICO CITY NEW INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
The goal was for the NAICM to be 
environmentally sustainable and to be 
the first airport in the world to obtain 
LEED Platinum certification v4 at its 
main terminal.
At 743,000 square metres, it will be 
one of the world’s largest airports and 
will revolutionise airport design.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Arup
• Foster + Partners
• FR-EE
TIMELINE
• 2014-2018
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• N/A
OUTCOMES
This hardworking structure harnesses 
the power of the sun, collects rainwater, 
provides shading, directs daylight and 
enables views – all while achieving a high 
performance envelope that meets high 
thermal and acoustic standards. 
The LEED Platinum design works with 
Mexico City’s temperate, dry climate to fill 
the terminal spaces with fresh air using 
displacement ventilation principles. For a 
large part of the year, comfortable tem-
peratures will be maintained by almost 
100% outside air, with little or no addi-
tional heating or cooling required. 
*Source: Foster + Partners
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 111

 
This innovative health-care service shares patient 
medical records and personal data to enhance the 
capability of the Center to provide healthcare staff 
and healthcare volunteers the information they need 
to check on elderly/disabled patients in their homes. 
Additionally, the updated data of the visits is being 
being shared to public hospitals so that doctors and 
nurses can better coordinate care for the elderly/
disabled during visits, improving the patients’ 
experience, as they no longer have to repeatedly 
provide the same information to doctors – whether 
at home visits or at hospitals.
Integrated Health 
Information System
A well-designed health information system (iHIS) 
is one of the essential components of an effective, 
modern healthcare system, as it helps ensure that 
reliable and timely information on health determinants 
will be produced, analysed, dispatched and acted on.
An iHIS involves the development of uniform data 
standards to ensure interoperability and two-
way communication between both patients and 
healthcare providers. With an iHIS, healthcare 
services can be linked through digital technology 
without separating public and private sectors, 
helping to provide the best possible benefits and 
continuous services to the public.
BENEFITS
An iHIS allows for more streamlined coordination 
and sharing of information, reducing administrative 
overhead for healthcare providers, and making it 
easier for patients to access the healthcare they 
need. Patient records can be shared between 
healthcare providers in real-time, making medical 
referrals seamless. Remote health monitoring can 
also be linked to an iHIS, enabling better preventative 
medicine and timely emergency response.
RELEVANCE
The MoPH has stated in its eHealth Strategy 
that one of the major challenges for Thailand is 
developing effective health information systems 
which would interoperate with other different health 
information systems. 
ONGOING INITIATIVE
Bangkok Digitalisation of Healthcare Services
The BMA has launched a pilot to introduce electronic 
patient records in 10 public hospitals. This is a crucial 
platform required for the city’s public health system 
to use more advanced technologies like analytics and 
artificial intelligence in the future.
In particular, the BMA is using technology to enhance 
elderly care, making it more convenient to access 
healthcare. The Home Ward Referral Center, a new 
BMA unit, has been set up to provide home care for the 
elderly, improving the utilisation of digital technology in 
public hospitals, and working around unpleasant traffic 
conditions.
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
112

SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
For a Bangkok iHIS, the Thai Health 
Information Standards Development 
Center (THIS), an affiliated organisation 
with Health System Research Institute 
(HSRI), under the Ministry of Public 
Health (MoPH), was established to 
research and develop health information 
standards toward the aim of achieving 
interoperability across health information 
systems in Thailand. THIS has proposed 
the health data standards development 
plan that aims to support and enable both 
administrative (insurance reimbursement 
and population health report) and 
clinical (healthcare services) information 
exchange. These standards will support the 
exchange of uniform information between 
both public and private healthcare service 
providers, patients, insurance providers, 
emergency responders, and researchers.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
The development and implementation of 
iHIS in Bangkok has been difficult due to 
a lack of agreement on standardisation 
throughout the health system, and a gap in 
technical capacity between policy makers 
and healthcare providers.
There is an opportunity for UK companies 
that work with NHS and/or other 
international entities on health IT solutions, 
electronic health records, and health data 
analytics to support MoPH in achieving its 
eHealth Strategy.
The UK is a frontrunner in the use 
of primary care electronic health 
records and an early adopter of 
several key parts of the digital health 
market, particularly digital imaging, 
telecare, mHealth and wearables. 
The UK has internationally recognised 
companies that are active in the 
Digital Health sector, and having 
been intimately involved in the digital 
transition of the UK’s National Health 
Service (NHS). Whilst this list is not 
exhaustive, it provides a perspective 
on the depth and breadth of the 
sector.
What can the UK offer?
• Health IT Solutions
• Electronic Health Records 
management
• Real-time health analytics
• Telemedicine and Teletriage
• Education and technical training
• Patient engagement and self 
management
• Services management
WHY THE UK?
Ampersand + Ampersand 
(www.3amp.co)
Co-create digital platforms with 
innovators in healthcare who share their 
mission: to generate practical benefit for 
patients, clinicians and society through 
technology. Have created solutions in 
conjunction with multiple NHS trusts and 
hospitals. 
Aparito 
(www.aparito.com)
Aparito’s next generation monitoring 
allows for remote patient monitoring for 
routine care and decentralised / hybrid 
/ remote clinical trials to be conducted 
anytime / anywhere. Reducing data 
collection burden while providing in built 
data analytics.
EMIS 
(www.emishealth.com)
EMIS have a suite of related products to 
allow for interoperability and community 
access. They also work for bespoke 
solutions. Have approximately 50% 
market share of coverage for NHS 
primary care providers.
medCrowd 
(www.medCrowd.com)
The instant messaging technology for 
health and care that keeps everyone 
in touch while protecting confidential 
information to the required standards.
medDigital 
(www.medDigital.com)
Develop and manage the approval 
of scientific content for healthcare 
websites and social media. Produce 
health websites, product information, 
training modules and can then run digital 
advisory boards that help discover 
insights in real-time.
Sitekit 
(www.sitekit.net)
Sitekit develops software and technology 
to connect patients and caregivers. The 
company has partnerships with the NHS, 
universities and industry. Has recently 
digitised the Children’s National RedBook 
Care Record.
TPP 
(www.tpp-uk.com)
Through its SystemInsight database 
it can provide vital clinical and 
administrative data for analytics. 
Approximately 50% market share 
of coverage for NHS primary care 
providers. Holds 44 million patient 
records across the UK for 6000 
organisations.
Transforming Systems 
(www.transformingsystems.co.uk)
Takes capacity and demand info from all 
services and shows availability through 
app technology, web portal or on phone 
– automatically escalates if there is a 
problem. Allows operational redirection 
and rearrangement of services real time.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
113

The following section discusses the most important 
aspect of the smart city - people. In order to create 
the ICT enabled cities of the future, people throughout all 
of society must be able to understand and engage with 
these technologies. In Bangkok and all of Thailand, that 
will require innovations in how we learn, think about and 
interact with our cities.
Smart People

Reliable information and robust two-way 
communication between cities and its people is the 
only way to achieve much of what makes a smart city 
desirable. Those involved in creating the smart city 
should take every opportunity to inform and educate 
people on the ways new technologies or investments 
could benefit them. People that are educated about 
smart waste bins or electricity meters are more likely to 
adopt and utilise them.
Being transparent about data security protocols and 
addressing privacy concerns will also instill confidence 
in people for the direction and vision of the smart city.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Access to digital technology and ICT infrastructure 
is one of the most important factors in supporting 
the smart people our cities need. This requires 
comprehensive smart city planning that accounts for 
ease of access and relevant digital programming. 
Finding ways to share infrastructure, both within city 
departments and other public agencies, as well as with 
the private sector, can improve overall access. This 
is especially important when it comes to broadband 
and wireless connectivity, and it is often private sector 
operators that are best suited to deploy and maintain 
these networks.
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
The interaction and education of citizens is critical 
to smart city success. Interaction refers to the way 
that people in a city interact with their public and 
private services. The smart citizen requires an ability 
to find, communicate, create, and use information and 
communication technologies that are integrated across 
the city. This requires a sufficient level of digital literacy. 
It would follow that education in the smart city must 
facilitate people, in their various age groups and 
demographics, to pursue lifelong learning opportunities 
that ensure their place in a changing labor market, and 
contribute as innovators, entrepreneurs and decision-
makers.
SMART CITIZENS
The best chance for a successful smart city is to gain the 
support of the people that live, work and travel through 
your city on a daily basis. The Smart Governance 
section of this chapter goes into greater detail on the 
ways in which smart city actors can create a unified 
and effective decision-making model for the city, but it 
is reiterated here that citizen engagement to increase 
public involvement and support in the smart city is a 
vital part of the process.
Public support and engagement brings in broader 
perspectives, and builds trust in current and future 
investments. It can also help rally support and financing 
from the private sector. 
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart People
Most perceptions of the smart city 
concentrate on the use of technologies 
and data. However, as has been stated 
throughout this Handbook, technology 
is just the tool we use to improve the 
well-being, sustainability and prosperity 
of our cities. 
A technologically-enabled city will thrive 
only if its people are ‘smart’. This applies 
to the ability of everyday citizens to 
engage with and shape the vision for 
digital transformation in our cities. This 
is also vitally important in our elected 
officials, policy makers, business leaders, 
and city officers as they make the 
decisions shaping the smart city.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 115

Smart People in 
Bangkok
Digital penetration in Bangkok, especially 
when accounting for mobile internet 
use, is very nearly ubiquitous. However, 
as was noted earlier in this chapter, 
Bangkok ranks low on KPMG’s latest 
Technology Innovation Hub survey, 
indicating that Bangkokians are not fully 
taking advantage of their digital access.
The digital divide in Thailand mostly 
refers to the urban-rural disparity, 
however, even in Bangkok there are large 
gaps present between demographics in 
terms of digital access and literacy. 
For Bangkok to become ‘smart’, all 
of its residents, from urban youth to 
government officials to corporate CEOs, 
must gain access to the know-how and 
skills needed to participate in the smart 
city and future workforce.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 
Since the adoption of Thailand 4.0, 
government has set ambitious goals to 
provide universal access to broadband 
internet as a basic utilty, and to ensure 
all Thais are digitally literate. 
In practice, this means MDES has started 
to invest in the creation of more than 100 
digital community centres throughout 
the country, and has doubled down 
on the promotion of digital education 
opportunities, especially in the face of 
the global pandemic, which has made 
distance learning a higher priority, even 
for urban Thais.
Depa has made modest investments 
through their Digital Manpower Fund 
to provide digital literacy training for 
government workers, as well as local 
communities and youth.
There is a strong local presence of 
co-working and creative space that has 
grown in Bangkok over the past decade, 
adding vital spaces for digital skill 
development and incubation.
PAIN POINTS
While the majority of Thais do have 
access to the internet, it is estimated 
that only 21% of Thai households have 
computers, which is lower than the 
global average of 49%. 
On the 2018 Global Competitiveness 
Index, conducted by the World Economic 
Forum, Thailand actually lost ground in 
‘Digital Skills among Active Population’ 
rankings, moving from 57
th to 61st when 
compared to the 2017 Index. 
This lack of digital skills is not just an 
issue for everyday citizens, but within 
government departments throughout 
Bangkok and the country. A major 
pain point identified by stakeholders 
throughout the smart city ecosystem 
is the lack of digital know-how in 
government workers, causing a severe 
disconnect between central policy and 
local implementation.
OPPORTUNITIES 
Government policy supports the move 
towards lifelong learning as a key to 
future workforce development and 
overall prosperity. Lifelong learning 
refers to not only the development of 
new professional skills, but also critical, 
creative and systematic thinking, 
which are important skills in need of 
development in Thailand, as well as the 
language skills, especially English. 
There is demand for new digital content 
that supports lifelong learning and digital 
skill development, as well as innovation 
in education technology.
Bangkok is home to most of the 
country’s top higher education 
institutions, and there are opportunities 
for creating research and development 
partnerships for specific workforce 
development intitiatives, or general 
knowledge exchange between 
international research institutions and 
smart city related organisations in the 
UK. of Thais have access to 
the internet
Thailand ranked 
61st (of 140) for 
Digital Skills Among Active Population 
in the 2018 Global Competitiveness 
Index
Only 21% 
of Thai 
households 
have 
computers 
within the 
home
Approximately 75% 
 21%
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand116

MINISTRY OF HIGHER 
EDUCATION, SCIENCE, 
RESEARCH & INNOVATION
Depa, under MDES, operates the Digital 
Manpower Office which controls a 
Digital Manpower Fund focused on 
digital skills development. They also 
offer a Digital CEO programme, Coding 
Thailand events and courses, and 
certify third-party courses for digital 
manpower development. 
MINISTRY OF DIGITAL 
ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
Key Players in 
Smart People
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
The Office of Private Education 
Commission (OPEC), under MoEd, 
developed an online learning platform, 
its Digital Learning Centre, to provide 
education via internet connections to 
the general public and all elementary 
and secondary students nationwide 
during the COVID-19 outbreak. 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
The Office of National Higher 
Education Science Research and 
Innovation Policy Council (NXPO) is 
an autonomous public agency affiliated 
to the Ministry of Higher Education, 
Science, Research and Innovation. 
NXPO serves as the secretariat of the 
National Higher Education, Science, 
Research and Innovation Policy Council 
(Policy Council) and is, therefore, 
responsible for facilitating the Policy 
Council in formulating, deploying and 
monitoring national policy addressing 
higher education, science, research 
and innovation under the guidance and 
instruction of the Policy Council. 
The National Reseach Council of 
Thailand (NRCT), under MHESI, 
provides grants and oversees research 
and innovation research for Thailand, 
and develops the database and index for 
science, research, and innovation. NRCT 
also provides support and capacity 
development for Thai researcher and 
research institution as well. 
Thailand Science Research and 
Innovation formulate policies, 
strategies, and plans on science, 
research, and innovation (SRI plans) 
and develop human resources and 
knowledge institutions. National Charter 
was one of the researches that has been 
initiated by TSRI. They also have a unit 
which focus on smart city and area-
based development 
The National Science and Technology 
Development Agency (NSTDA), under 
MHESI, funds research partnerships 
between international education 
and research institutions, as well as 
domestic research projects. Future 
cities is part of their agenda, and they 
also have a Manpower Development 
Division.
THAI UNIVERSITIES
Thai universities are leading the charge 
for smart city research. Many agencies 
and organisations are relying on them 
to provide the insight to the technology, 
innovation, and research to develop 
smart city. Though it is impossible to list 
them all, top Bangkok-based universities 
like Chulalongkorn University 
(CU), Thammasat University (TU), 
Kasetsart University (KU), King 
Mongkut’s Intitute of Technology 
Ladkrabang (KMITL), King Mongkut’s 
University of Technology Thonburi 
(KMUTT), and National Institute of 
Development Administration (NIDA) 
support various Centres of Excellence 
(CoE) or Research Units (RU) under 
PRIVATE SECTOR
The Thailand Development Research 
Institute (TDRI) is a private non-
profit foundation. It provides technical 
analysis (mostly but not entirely in 
economic areas) to various public 
agencies to help formulate policies to 
support long-term economic and social 
development in Thailand.
professors who are doing research to 
offer the expertise on urban analytic, 
data science, built tech, etc. 
Nevertheless, compared to UK or other 
developed countries, Thailand has yet to 
produce the robust research centre or 
think-tank in the particular field of smart 
city. UK partners have an opportunity 
to provide the lesson-learned, establish 
partnership or even help develop this 
kind of entity. In the long run, this will 
help develop the manpower needed for 
smart city development and business 
model.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
117

OpenDurian
OpenDurian is an education technology platform 
utilising artificial intelligence to develop educational 
content based on Thai education data. The EdTech 
company develops free test preparation materials 
and premium video courses for three target groups: 
K-12 students, college students, and first-time 
jobseekers. The online courses cover subjects such 
as biology and mathematics and prepare users for 
English language tests, general aptitude tests, and 
doctor aptitude tests. OpenDurian provides users with 
exam preparation courses specifically for advanced 
standardised tests, such as the PAT, the SAT, Smart-I, 
and the CU-AAT.
Education 
Technology (EdTech)
Education technology, or EdTech, is a sector that has 
recently emerged in response to the rapid growth of 
digital technologies and startup communities, and 
garnered even more attention in the context of the 
global pandemic. It can be a powerful tool to create 
new smart city champions.
EdTech refers to the utilisation of technologies to 
provide new forms of education in various aspects, 
from accessibility, delivery, participation, content 
development, or modes of learning. It can play a 
key role in the positive transformation of education, 
including making classroom time more collaborative 
and integrated, teacher assessment more transparent 
and seamless, and improving accessibility through 
remote learning and online research.
BENEFITS
EdTech has the potential to enable lifelong learning 
across all age groups and demographics. It can provide 
high standards of educational content to those without 
access in traditional schools, it can empower teachers 
to reach a greater number of students, and it provides 
new business opportunities for content creators.
RELEVANCE
The market trend shows that the EdTech sector is 
soaring, with 17% growth annually, especially in the 
Asia-Pacific region which is expected to represent 
54% of the EdTech market by 2020. In Thailand, 
several EdTech startups have emerged, reflecting 
the long-recognised need for the digitalisation and 
transformation of education. 
ONGOING INITIATIVE
InsKru
‘Ins’ from ‘inspire’ and ‘Kru’ meaning ‘teachers’—
InsKru is a local startup providing a platform for 
teachers to share teaching methods, pedagogical 
ideas, and techniques of engagement with students 
from primary school through high school. InsKru 
founders’ desire to connect educators from across 
the nation through EdTech reflects their general 
philosophy of teachers as crucial components of 
education development in Thailand. Educators can 
view articles posted by other teachers about ideas 
ranging from engaging and educational games or 
note-taking techniques, and they can post specific 
questions for other teachers to respond with their 
own experiences and solutions.
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
118

Educators and 
Schools
Courses & Content
Providers EdTech Platform Communication 
Network Students
Universities, 
Schools, Teachers
Universities, 
Teachers, EdTech 
Companies
Software Provider, 
EdTech Startup
K-12, University, 
Post-grad, 
Professional Cer-
tifications, Skills 
Training
Universities and ed-
ucators responsible 
for providing digital 
content to their 
students; Schools 
also responsible 
for administration 
/ enrollment man-
agement. Front end 
users
Educational content 
and curriculum 
creators. May be 
schools or teach-
ers themselves, or 
third-party content 
creators
Integrated platform 
providing service to 
both content crea-
tors/providers and 
students - Resonsi-
ble for content host-
ing, content crea-
tion tools, account 
management, etc.
-
Students are the 
end users of cre-
ated content. May 
be seeking general 
online education, 
collaboration tools, 
or targeted skill or 
career development
Administration
management and/or 
institutional part-
nerships
Course & content 
provider
Platform supplier 
and manager --
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
EdTech services link together the many 
stakeholders involved in the education 
ecosystem. Educators or schools seeking to 
provide online content to their students can 
create content themselves, or seek third-
party providers to augment their educational 
offerings. 
Courses and content are hosted on an online 
platform, typically provided by a third-party 
software provider or EdTech startup. Content is 
then transmitted via network communication to 
interested students, typically via a webcam and 
monitor, speakers, and sometimes interactive 
features. 
Platform providers may also be the content 
creators, or may offer content creation tools. 
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
There is growing demand for digital content 
to augment Thailand’s current educational 
system. UK EdTech companies should explore 
translating and importing their existing content 
and expanding their online platforms to the Thai 
market.
Demand for smart city and digital skills related 
content is high. Content creators and hosts 
like Open University should consider forging 
a partnership with those involved in digital 
manpower development, for example depa or 
NSTDA, for the dissemination of their content 
into the Thai market. 
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
University / 
Educational Institute
Private Instructor
Course & Content
Course & Content
EdTech Platform Communication 
Network
Online Learning
Collaboration Tools
SKill & Career Development
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 119

The UK is world-renowned for the 
quality of its education system, 
and it has become an established 
and fast-growing hub for emerging 
EdTech. Over half of the European 
EdTech Top 20 list are from the UK, 
and the UK has more than 1,000 
EdTech companies covering the full 
educational landscape, with expertise 
in infrastructure, connectivity, 
hardware, software and content.
With a culture of innovation and 
wide array of competitive Edtech 
companies, the UK EdTech sector 
is well placed to help international 
organisations achieve better 
educational outcomes.
What can the UK offer?
• Expertise in infrastructure, 
connectivity, hardware, software 
and content
• New learning methods and 
technology to teach essential 
skills from coding to the access 
and understanding of data
WHY THE UK?
RM Results 
(www.rmresults.co.uk)
RM is an e-marking platform that works 
with awarding organisations who need 
to process up to tens of millions of exam 
scripts. Their RM Assessor software 
is the world’s most widely used and 
innovative e-marking solution.
GL Education 
(www.gl-education.com)
GL Education (GLE) is the UK’s largest 
provider of formative assessments for 
schools. It provides digital assessments, 
reporting analytics and support services 
for over 3 million students each year, 
across more than 100 countries. GLE 
has developed over 120 rigorous and 
high quality assessments for children’s 
education, mental health and well-being. 
Their belief is that schools should take a 
‘whole pupil view’ approach.
Maths-Whizz 
(www.whizz.com)
Maths-Whizz is a personalised tutoring 
platform that has been catering to the 
individual learning needs of students, 
making it ideal for a wide range of 
abilities including gifted and talented 
students.
OVERVIEW
The Mexican state of Aguascalientes 
is using Maths-Whizz, presented in 
Spanish, to improve student perfor-
mance and educational outcomes 
across maths and associated subjects.
There is typically a four year gap in 
maths ability between the highest and 
lowest achieving students. To bridge 
this gap, the Maths-Whizz Tutor takes 
each child on an individual learning 
journey that continually adapts to 
their performance. It also provides 
teachers with detailed information 
about each child’s usage and progress 
through the Maths-Whizz curriculum.
EDTECH UK SUCCESS STORY: MATHS-WHIZZ 
AGUASCALIENTES, MEXICO
OUTCOMES
The project was successfully piloted 
in 10 schools. Over 1,600 students 
have been assessed and are actively 
using Maths-Whizz. Teachers received 
certified training in how to implement 
both the adaptive tutoring technology 
and the digital tools for whole class 
teaching to raise standards in maths.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand120

Higher Ed 
Partnerships
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
A KEY ROLE IN SMART CITY 
RESEARCH
The UK’s Newton Fund has already 
established the Newton UK - Thailand 
Research and Innovation Partnership 
Fund, a partnership with NSTDA. It aims 
to strengthen science and innovation 
capacity and unlock further funding to 
support poverty alleviation through the 
cooperation between Thai and British 
institutes. The fund addresses priority 
in the following areas: health and life 
sciences, improving environmental 
resilience and energy security, future 
cities, agritech, and digital, innovation 
and creativity. 
Further partnerships between Thai 
higher education and research 
institutions with UK counterparts would 
strengthen smart city efforts in both 
countries, and provide opportunities to 
gain much needed expertise in smart 
city related fields like computer science, 
information and technology, urban 
planning and management, digital 
change management, and more. 
Explore opportunities with UK Research 
& Innovation, the organisation that 
directs research and innovation funding 
in the UK.
UK Research & Innovation 
(www.ukri.org)
UK universities play a key role in developing 
future smart cities through education, 
research and partnership. Universities 
in the UK are assessed on their ability to 
transform research into practical application 
and this incentivises them to work with new 
investors. 
Thai partners in smart cities can take 
advantage of:
• Almost 115,000 graduates each year in 
engineering & technology, architecture, 
building & planning, mathematical 
studies, and computer science.
• 19 universities currently offer 
postgraduate degrees in Smart 
Cities and nine universities offer PhD 
scholarships in Smart Cities.
• Interdisciplinary research centres in 
universities that connect leading edge 
research in different departments with 
public and private partners.
• International research collaborations 
on smart cities bring new ideas into the 
UK research environment.
Institute for Future Cities 
(www.ifuturecities.com)
The Institute is based at the University of 
Strathclyde’s £89 million state-of-the-art 
Technology & Innovation Centre, a custom-
built City Observatory facility to dynamically 
visualise cities and city systems in new ways.
Censis (www.censis.org.uk)
An industry-led Innovation Centre for 
Sensor and Imaging Systems (SIS) and 
Internet of Things (IoT) technologies and 
their applications.
Newcastle Helix 
(www.ncl.ac.uk/helix/urban)
Opened in September 2017, the £58m 
Urban Sciences Building and its surrounding 
city area is a living laboratory underpinning 
research to make urban centres more 
sustainable for future generations.
Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (www.
lida.leeds.ac.uk)
Home to state of the art physical and 
IT infrastructures supporting £50m in 
research projects. Working with Alan Turing 
Institute on Urban Analytics Research 
programme.
Sensor City (www.sensorcity.co.uk)
Driving sensor technology development 
enabling industry and academic partners to 
translate their innovative sensor products 
into commercially viable products. 
Cambridge Centre for Smart 
Infrastructure and Construction 
(www-smartinfrastructure.eng.cam.ac.uk)
Develops cutting edge sensing and data 
analysis models to provide a platform for 
delivering data for smarter whole-life asset 
management decisions.
Oxford Programme for the Future of 
Cities (www.futureofcities.ox.ac.uk)
Re-thinking the city as a flexible and evolving 
space that better responds to contemporary 
urban challenges. Uses AI in fields of 
urban studies, real estate, climate change, 
transportation, migration and ageing.
Urban Innovation Centre 
(www.futurecities.catapult.org.uk/urban-
innovation-centre/about)
A collaborative hub for businesses, 
academics, city leaders and entrepreneurs 
to connect, develop and create smart city 
solutions.
UK RESEARCH CENTRES FOR SMART CITIES
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 121

Thailand and Bangkok have declared a commitment 
to improving its governance structures, and ‘smart’ 
technology has an important role to play in meeting this 
goal. The following section describes how technology 
can augment the decision making processes in our 
cities through the better integration and sharing of 
information, and by instilling a culture of transparency and 
accountability in our government institutions. 
Smart Governance

One of the biggest challenges around the world to 
delivering smart digital government services is a lack of 
standardised and accurate data. 
Therefore, the first step towards smart governance is 
creating a citywide data management, transparency 
and sharing policy that ensures data is collected and 
stored uniformly and securely, and that data is made 
available to other government departments, as well as 
the public (when applicable).
This can be a difficult transformation, but ultimately 
it leads to a more agile and accountable form of 
government that saves money and improves citizen 
satisfaction.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
If smart governance is about digitally transforming 
the way government delivers services and interacts 
with its citizens, then it should go without saying that 
this transformation requires citywide connectivity to 
broadband and wireless networks. 
Government delivers a wide-range of services that 
impact nearly every facet of life in the city. This 
complexity often makes managing and delivering 
services costly and ineffective. The key to smart 
governance is leveraging ICT infrastructures to 
integrate these services through interoperable devices 
and communications networks. 
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
Aside from providing more effective and convenient 
government services to citizens, smart governance is all 
about engaging citizens in the process of the smart city.
Being proactive about sourcing ideas from citizens 
and informing and educating them about the ways 
the smart city can benefit their lives will lead to better 
outcomes, more trust in government, and faster and 
greater uptake of new service solutions. 
The methods of engaging citizens should also become 
smarter, moving away from traditional public meetings 
that typically draw a small number of the same engaged 
citizens, and looking to innovate through technology to 
engage people in more interesting and genuine ways.
SMART CITIZENS
Reshaping the way government works can be a 
long and difficult task. It requires the commitment 
and cooperation of many different stakeholders. 
Government departments may be at odds with each 
other, or existing systems or incentive structures may 
preclude a desire to change.
This is why the move towards smart governance is 
unlikely to succeed without a true champion of the 
cause. This is typically a city mayor or manager, but can 
also come from the private sector, local universities, or 
general public. 
Either way, the most important part of smart 
governance is strong and accountable leadership. 
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart Governance
Fundamentally, Smart Governance 
encompasses the use of information and 
communication technology to improve 
to way government actors interact 
with themselves, as well as making it 
easier for citizens to participate in the 
processes of the city. 
The use of the word “governance” 
instead of “government” is to emphasise 
the change in decision and policy making 
processes. 
Practically, smart governance is about 
integrating government data and digital 
government services to support better 
coordination amongst government 
actors, as well as increase citizen 
satisfaction while holding government 
more accountable in the process.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 123

Smart Governance 
in Bangkok
The vision of Thailand Smart 
Governance is under the direct 
supervision of the Office of the Prime 
Minister, as it is seen as a major priority 
for the future of the country. In 2017, 
the Five-Year Digital Government 
Development Plan (2017-2021) was put 
into effect, declaring the aim to develop 
digital capabilities in all government 
sectors, and integrate digital 
technologies into public services. 
This was followed by the establishment 
of the Digital Government Development 
Agency (DGA) in 2018, the agency 
charged with implementation of the 
Five-Year Plan, and supporting all other 
state-level partners in the digitalisation 
process through data optimisation and 
integration, cloud platform support, and 
digital skills capacity building. 
PAIN POINTS
Thailand’s move towards digital 
government has been slow, as most 
government departments, at the 
state, provincial and local level, 
lack the internal capacity for digital 
transformation, both from an ICT 
infrastructure and skills perspective. 
In Bangkok, where similar goals have 
been stated to make the transition to 
digital government, there is resistence 
to integrate data sources at a cross-
departmental level, and few understand 
the benefit of sharing government data 
with the public. Similar challenges are 
present throughout the country.
These challenges are supported by 
recent global indexes, which rank 
Thailand far behind world leaders on 
eGovernment, eParticipation, open 
data, and government corruption (see 
below for 2019 indexes). 
To date, Phuket is leading the way in 
integrated government data, with Khon 
Kaen and Chiang Mai not far behind.
Bangkok’s ongoing work with the Prosperity 
Fund’s Global Future Cities Programme 
(GFCP) to develop the integrated data 
hub for cross-departmental data sharing 
and optimisation is also a model of how 
government can make the transition to 
digital government.
OPPORTUNITIES
The emphasis from the very top of 
Thai government presents significant 
opportunity for companies and 
organisations with expertise in digital 
government transformation. Though 
major challenges still exist related to the 
culture of data sharing and transparency 
within Thai government, mandates from 
the Office of the Prime Minister, and 
substantial resources being put towards 
the development of integrated government 
services, means that every government 
department must eventually make the 
transition.
Companies with platform solutions with 
proven results will be in high-demand, 
and insitutional partnerships for system 
design and internal capacity building like 
the ongoing collaboration with GFCP and 
BMA present other opportunities for cities 
around the country.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
In May 2019, the Digital Governance 
Services Act was enacted, establishing 
the Government Information Network 
(GIN) under the supervision of DGA, 
together with MDES. The GIN requires 
more than 100,000 state agencies, 
government hospitals, schools and 
subdistrict administrations to integrate 
their data and services into a single 
government platform. This service will 
include, among others, e-Procurement, 
e-Budgeting, and a Digital Citizen 
ID programme to allow citizens to 
access public records. It is expected 
that at least 120 citizen services and 
300 business-related lincenses will be 
available through the portal within five 
years.
At the city level, depa is working closely 
with its Smart City Thailand partner 
cities to develop City Data Platforms for the 
integration of city data and services. 
Thailand ranks 89th 
(from 193) on the 
UN’s eGovernment 
Development Index
Thailand ranks
 51st 
(from 94) on the Global 
Open Data Index (GODI)
Thailand ranks 82nd 
(from 193) on the UN’s 
eParticipation Index
Thailand ranks 96th 
(from 177) on the Corruption 
Perceptions Index (CPI)
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand124

The central executive office responsible 
for assisting the Prime Minister in 
administering the Thai government, 
the Office of the Prime Minister has 
set the national agenda for digitalising 
government services. The Office 
of Public Sector Development 
Commission (OPDC) supports the 
development of Thailand’s bureaucracy, 
budgeting system, personnel system, 
and other public sector duties in the 
effort of achieving good governance. 
The Office of Civil Service 
Commission (OCSC) advises on human 
resource management in the public 
sector and development of human 
resource and workforce planning.
OFFICE OF THE 
PRIME MINISTER
Key Players in 
Smart Governance
The Digital Government 
Development Agency (DGA) 
is the government agency 
responsible for implementation 
of the Digital Government 
Development Plan. DGA 
supports other government 
actors through trainings and 
technical support for data 
integration, cloud platform 
development, and other digital 
transformation programmes.
BANGKOK 
METROPOLITAN 
ADMINISTRATION 
The BMA is currently undergoing the 
process of developing an integrated 
data hub (IDH), under the supervision 
of the Deputy Governor and with 
cooperation of all BMA departments, 
together with the UK FCDO Global 
Future Cities Programme. BMA is also 
currently upgrading the existing data 
centre, improving network speed and 
security within the organisation, and 
improving it computing facilities.
MDES is responsible for the overall 
transformation of digital infrastructure 
and practices in Thai society. Upon 
creation of MDES in 2016, the National 
Statistical Office (NSO) was placed 
under its supervision. The NSO is 
responsible for the national decennial 
census, containing the largest and most 
comprehensive publicly held datasets in 
Thailand.
A core mission of the Smart City 
Thailand Office under depa is to help 
cities develop city data platforms, 
offering training programmes 
and technical assistance to city 
departments. 
MINISTRY OF DIGITAL 
ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
The Electronic Transactions 
Development Agency (ETDA) 
is responsible for regulating 
and supporting electronic 
transactions, in both the public 
and private sector. This includes 
any financial transaction, 
or trade of information for 
services. ETDA has partnered 
with DGA on the GIN project to 
ensure safe and secure transfer 
of information and payments.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
125

 
The CDP brings together more than 60 city level 
data layers related to tourism, safety, environmental 
protection, and real estate, and though currently 
operational, further cooperation from all sectors are 
needed to optimise the platform. 
Integrated 
Data Hub (IDH)
An Integrated Data Hub (IDH) is mix of ICT solutions 
and personnel involved in a centralised repository 
of city data. It is used to enhance decision making 
and lead to better quality analysis, considered 
critical to strengthening data monitoring systems.
IDH helps address issues of coordination amongst 
government departments, and includes practices 
for improving data consistency and reliability, 
leading to better quality data in the longrun, and 
more informed policy making, more effective 
service provision and reform, and speedier crisis 
response.
BENEFITS
IDH allows a city like Bangkok - a large metropolitan 
area that is constantly needing to respond to 
environmental and societal demands - to deliver 
better services, respond more rapidly to crises, 
improve accountability amongst government 
departments, and improve data accuracy and 
timeliness, eventually leading to an improved 
culture of data sharing and a more informed public.
RELEVANCE
The BMA, and Thai government, more generally, 
is renowned for a lack of coordination in terms of 
planning and data sharing between the different 
departments. The lack of data sharing and 
unharmonised analysis make the deployment of 
projects and strategies within the city more difficult 
and inefficient. 
ONGOING INITIATIVE
Phuket Smart City Data Platform
The Phuket Smart City Data Platform (CDP) 
Development Project is a first of its kind prototype 
project in Thailand for integrated information at the 
city level for use in planning, management and solving 
urban challenges, and is seen as a model for other cities 
pursuing smart city data platforms across the country.
Initiated by City Data Analytics, a subsidiary of Phuket 
City Development (PKCD), together with support from 
depa and Prince of Songkla University Hat Yai Campus, 
the platform is setup to collect, analyse and display data 
collected at more than 1,000 wi-fi hotspots. 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand126

Data Sources Data Lake Platform Data Security 
Platform
Data Science 
Platform Data Utilisation
 BMA
Data Architect 
Specialist
Solution Provider: 
Developer / Data 
Management 
Specialist 
Solution Provider: 
Developer / Data 
Security Specialist
Solution Provider: 
Developer / 
Data Analytics 
Specialist
BMA
Decision Making
Strategic Planning
Service Development
Open Data
Data from multiple 
BMA (host) 
departments 
and related 
organisations/
service providers 
are organised and 
managed by a data 
architect
Data is stored in a 
data lake repository 
designed by a 
developer with 
data management 
and data lake 
specialisation
A data security 
platform developer 
/ specialist ensures 
data is secure within 
the IDH
Data is processed 
and analysed 
through a data 
science platform 
developed by a data 
science / AI 
specialist
Data is connected 
in an integrated 
space for BMA and 
partners to utilise
Data architect 
specialist and/or 
capacity building 
for in-house data 
architect
Solution Provider Solution Provider Solution Provider
Capacity building 
for data utilisation 
for planning 
and service 
development
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
In the case of a Bangkok city IDH, data is 
pulled from the various BMA departments, or 
in some cases, from outside sources that are 
relevant to BMA work. BMA is the host of the 
IDH, however a data architect, either third party 
or in-house, must design, create, deploy and 
manages the BMA’s data architecture system, 
which includes standards and connectivity. 
Data is then stored in its raw form in a data 
lake platform, a repository for all data required 
for further application in the IDH. Data is made 
secure through a data security platform, and 
then is processed and analysed through a data 
science platform, which typically involves the 
use of AI, and is prepared for utilisation. Data is 
then communicated for display and utilisation 
within an integrated cloud for BMA and partners 
to use for decision making, planning, service 
development, and eventually open data.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
The development and implementation of 
IDH requires technical specialisation through 
the development stage all the way through 
operation and maintenance. UK specialists can 
be instrumental in the data architecture design 
phase, the platform development phase, and 
also in capacity building for in-house technicians 
to maintain and further develop the IDH once it 
is in operation.
ROLETHAI STAKEHOLDERSDESCRIPTIONUK OPPORTUNITY
Data Utilisation
Data Science 
Platform
Data Security 
Platform
Data Lake 
PlatformMultiple Data 
Sources
Integrated Data Hub
 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 127

As well as being the second largest 
exporter of computer and information 
services globally, the UK has one 
of the world’s strongest and most 
developed data analytics sectors. 
This is driven by the diversity of 
technology firms in the UK and 
the variety of areas where data 
management and analytics can 
help improve efficiency. If your 
organisation is looking to make 
full use of data, UK companies are 
the perfect partners to help in the 
processing, analysing and monetising.
What can the UK offer?
• Data architecture design and 
management
• Data management & analytics 
consulting
• Data security consulting and 
platform design
• Cloud computing platform design 
and management
• Artificial intelligence (AI) 
expertise
WHY THE UK?
Analytics Engines 
(www.analyticsengines.com)
Provide data analytics solutions to 
organisations throughout industry and 
the public sector by reducing complexity, 
optimising performance and maximising 
the value of data.
Arup 
(www.arup.com)
Arup operates a design and engineering 
firm that works on a range of creative 
projects across the built environment 
sector.
Capita Software 
(www.capita.com/our-services/software)
Capita Software provides specialist 
enterprise software solutions which 
support the education sector, local 
government, the emergency services, the 
health sector, utilities and other private 
sector markets. 
Chordant 
(www.chordant.io)
A platform allows cities to enable their 
own solutions by consolidating, exposing 
and monetising their data. Smart City 
deployments involve diverse types of 
devices, data and services. The platform 
supports standards-based architecture 
and APIs that hide complexity from 
application developers, so they can focus 
on creating amazing applications for 
cities, consumers and enterprises. 
Connected Space 
(www.connected-space.co.uk)
Technology innovation company, building 
solutions across multiple sectors with a 
focus on smart cities, mobility, govtech 
and urbantech.
Future Cities Lab 
(www.futurecitieslab.com)
Future Cities Lab designs and develops 
city wide technology frameworks, aiming 
to integrate the lives of citizens with Big 
Data, including wellness mobile apps and 
healthcare software.
Giosprite Ltd 
(www.giosprite.com) 
Provides smart network technologies 
expertise for local authorities to 
gain insights from IoT data to make 
better decisions on transport, social, 
environmental services. 
KnowNow Information Ltd 
(www.kn-i.com)
KnowNow provides software and 
consultancy services to city planners, 
ranging over areas such as app 
development, sensor deployment and 
analytics, and flood modelling.
Mott MacDonald 
(www.mottmac.com)
Global engineering, management and 
development consultancy.
Open Data Institute 
(www.theodi.org)
The Open Data Institute works with 
companies and governments to build an 
open, trustworthy data ecosystem, where 
people can make better decisions using 
data and manage any harmful impacts.
Privitar 
(www.privitar.com)
Privitar is the global pioneer in data 
privacy engineering and creates software 
designed for enterprise-wide and 
Government privacy protection, enabling 
their customers to control, use and share 
data safely.
Urban Tide 
(www.urbantide.com)
UrbanTide use IoT and AI to identify 
and map assets helping cities and 
organisations to meet legislated targets 
and improve service delivery and citizen 
well being.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand128

OVERVIEW
The overall aim of the IDH is to address 
the lack of inter-departmental cooperation 
and enhance integrated planning and 
the adoption of integrated approaches in 
responses towards urban challenges. 
The IDH’s first priority will be the 
development of a Data Science Platform 
(DSP) to enable BMA to develop solutions 
capable of more readily achieving its 
IDH UK SUCCESS STORY: BMA - BANGKOK, THAILAND
strategic, as well as development goals 
while ensuring coherence between 
departments. 
This is especially relevant in a context like 
Bangkok where currently there is a need to 
increase coordination in terms of planning 
as well as data sharing between different 
departments.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• BMA
• UK FCDO Global Future Cities 
Programme
• Mott MacDonald
TIMELINE
• Phase 1 2019-2021
• Phase 2 TBD
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• N/A
OUTCOMES
A centralised repository such as that enabled 
by an Integrated Data Hub (IDH) will enhance 
decision making and lead to better quality 
analysis, considered critical to strengthening 
data monitoring systems. Increasing the 
utilisation of real-time data and adoption of 
core data principles is expected to improve 
accountability among departments which will 
thereby help promote an environment more 
conducive to openness and sharing of data. 
Moreover, once data accuracy and timeliness 
can be more reliably assured, the availability 
of updated data to the public will also help 
raise the credibility of information published 
and push towards a better informed and 
more trusting society.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 129

 
However, while availability of datasets on the 
platform continues to grow, the intended impacts of 
the platform are still unrealised, as partnerships and 
collaboration on data utilisation are still minimal, and 
open data policies and standards have yet to take 
hold, leading to unreliable data, and many gaps in 
the available information.
Open Data Platform
Whereas a IDH systems are about cross-
departmental and inter-governmental coordination 
on government data, open data platforms are 
about data sharing, transparency, and two-way 
communication and engagement with the public. 
Open data can be freely used, reused and 
redistributed by anyone. It includes government 
data, but a robust open data platform also includes 
citizen-generated data, where citizens are not just 
consumers of data, but also producers, users and 
intermediaries. Citizen-generated data can help 
improve city service delivery, and provide granular 
data for more evidence-based decisions.
BENEFITS
Open data has been shown to increase government 
transparency and accountability, improve 
innovation and economic development through 
greater access to information, and greater inclusion 
and citizen empowerment, leading to more trust in 
government, and improved overall city operations.
RELEVANCE
Bangkok is a city with major service shortfalls 
and public safety challenges that are made worse 
by a lack of evidence-based planning and service 
improvement. At the same time, most Bangkokians 
are connected to the internet. Open data can 
help optimise service delivery by providing more 
comprehensive access to information about urban 
challenges, and encouraging citizens and other 
societal actors to innovate and provide solutions.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
DGA Open Data Government of Thailand
The Digital Government Development Agency (DGA), 
together with the Office of the Prime Minister, has 
launched the Open Data Government of Thailand 
portal, data.go.th, to consolidate and provide access to 
government datasets sourced throughout the country. 
There are currently more than 2,000 datasets available 
through the portal, and the portal is developed under 
the concept of being a centre for country information 
that allows people to access government information 
conveniently, quickly, and at all times. 
The data can be displayed and visualised directly 
through the platform, as well as downloaded for 
offline use. 
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand130

SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
The open data platform ecosystem 
is similar to the IDH in terms of ICT 
infrastructure and technical capacity. What 
differs is the source and availability of data. 
A robust open data platform provides 
access to nonconfidential government 
data, and provides means for citizens 
to use, produce and control datasets. 
More important than the technology are 
effective partnerships and collaboration, 
the quality of public open data, clear 
open data policies and engagement and 
educational campaigns around the use and 
benefits of open data for society. 
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
The UK is a world leader in open data 
policy and platform development. As 
Thailand makes the transition towards 
open data, expertise will be in demand 
for open data policy and standardisation 
development, and open data 
architectures. 
Though Thailand has begun to collect 
and host open data, the connection to 
service delivery, innovation and business 
ecosystems, and citizen-empowerment 
are still lacking. Beyond the platform 
development and operation, UK expertise 
in developing a culture and ecosystem 
around open data utilisation and citizen-
engagement is another area that Thailand 
would greatly benefit from. 
OPEN DATA PLATFORM UK SUCCESS STORY: RECIFE, BRAZIL 
URBAN GOVERNANCE DATA ECOSYSTEM
OVERVIEW
The UK FCDO Global Future Cities 
Programme, together with UN-Hab-
itat and the government of Recife, 
Brazil, have begun the development 
of an Urban Governance Data Ecosys-
tem (UGDE).
A UGDE is a system of interactions 
between municipal government and 
other stakeholders for exchanging, 
producing and consuming data for 
better understanding, planning, 
financing and managing a city. 
The programme focuses not only on 
the technological side of open data, 
but also the need for cultural change 
in how government and citizens inter-
act with and understand the power of 
data in their everyday lives.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS
• Recife
• UK FCDO Global Future Cities 
Programme
• UN-Habitat
TIMELINE
• Ongoing
APPROXIMATE PROJECT VALUE
• N/A
OUTCOMES
The programme focuses on three primary 
outputs for the UGDE intervention: 
A Municipality Data Governance Frame-
work (DGF) that consists of the processes, 
methods, tools and techniques to ensure 
that data is of high quality, reliable, and 
unique (not duplicated).
A Urban Knowledge Hub (HUB) , a 
central data hub to stimulating citizen par-
ticipation and innovation and foster a data 
transformation to permeate local culture.
A Data Engagement Action Plan (DEA), 
a series of initiatives with the aim of giving 
city residents the knowledge needed to 
verify and utilise city data.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 131

The following section highlights how Thailand has hinged 
its future prosperity on the digital economy and advanced 
industries, and how smart cities can harness smart 
technologies and innovations to ensure a supportive 
environment for entrepreneurship and business 
transformation while expanding economic opportunity for 
its residents to participate in the high-skilled workforce of 
the future.
Smart Economy

The flow of standardised, open data from the city 
promotes better economic decision making. Financial 
forecasting and business strategy is augmented by a 
strong regimen of city data, and also helps support 
businesses to shape their models around solving 
identified urban challenges and opportunities.
The smart economy relies on safe and secure 
payments, and clear and enforced data privacy 
rules. In general, trust in cybersecurity measures 
instills confidence in economic activity across the 
spectrum, and becomes even more important as the 
economy becomes ever reliant on the flow of data and 
interconnectivity of devices.
OPEN DATA & SECURITY
Ubiquitous broadband communications are a 
prerequisite for the smart economy. In today’s 
economy, people and businesses expect fast and stable 
communications, requiring strategic and expansive 
investments into the telecommunications infrastructure 
of the city. 
Cities are not solely responsible for building or 
operating this infrastructure, but the ICT infrastructure 
of the city must accommodate future growth and 
demand, and it must be made accessible to the 
full population to ensure economic activity can be 
optimised. 
SMART INFRASTRUCTURE
It is one thing to invest in the infrastructure of a smart 
city, but finding the highly trained workers in both the 
public and private sector that smart cities will need to 
operate that infrastructure is a challenge.
All throughout the world, workers in the field of ICT, 
data science and computer engineering are in high 
demand. To build a smart economy in our cities, policies 
and programmes should be prioritised that develop a 
workforce with the necessary skills to manufacture, 
install, maintain and operate smart city technologies 
Citizens should be able to find out which skills are 
required in the workforce, how to attain those skills, and 
have access to employers in need of them. 
SMART CITIZENS
The importance of proper governance cannot be 
understated in supporting economic success. Effective 
city management and leadership on smart city initiatives 
has a positive impact on economic performance. 
A strong vision and coordinated effort on policy 
development and implementation will encourage private 
sector partnerships and investment into the smart 
city. In many cases, this is the most important factor 
determining the success of the smart city.
The government procurement processes also have a 
major impact on project delivery, and therefore ease of 
doing business on smart city related projects. A move 
towards e-procurement is part of the smart economy.
URBAN GOVERNANCE
The Pillars of 
Smart Economy
The Smart Economy places the needs 
of citizens at the centre of business 
ecosystems, and actively facilitates 
connections through technology and 
market building activities to encourage 
innovation and collaboration towards 
meeting the needs of city users. 
As advanced industries emerge and grow 
in the 21
st century economy, workforce 
management and development becomes 
vital for economic success, both in terms 
of market growth, as well as ensuring 
citizens are able to make a living. 
In this sense, inclusivity is a prerequisite 
for the ‘smart’ economy. 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 133

Smart Economy in 
Bangkok
Bangkok’s position as Thailand’s 
economic engine means it is home to the 
majority of the country’s entrepreneurs 
and digital startups. Bangkok is 
pioneering the first 5G test bed in 
Southeast Asia, and investment into ICT 
infrastructures continue at a steady pace. 
This all supports a healthy environment 
for the digital economy, as Bangkok has 
drawn in many new ventures and the 
move towards digital payments continues 
to increase. In the World Bank’s 2019 Ease 
of Doing Business Index, Thailand ranked 
27th, and it consistently ranks high in 
terms of foreign direct investment. 
However, as Bangkok, and the nation as 
a whole move towards the Thailand 4.0 
industries, there is growing risk that many 
in the Thai economy will be left behind.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 
Advancements in cybersecurity and 
regulatory reforms for electronic 
transactions have led to growing 
consumer confidence in the ePayment 
sector, and growth in FinTech, in 
general. 46.5 million Thais are currently 
registered for the digital payment 
platform PromptPay, and other digital 
wallets have been brought to market in 
recent years.
A growing startup ecosystem has 
also emerged in the past decade, with 
a variety of homegrown co-working 
hubs working together with MDES and 
major technology companies to develop 
Thailand’s ‘first unicorn’. In recent years, 
some of these startups have begun 
to focus their attention on addressing 
urban challenges.
PAIN POINTS 
Despite growing signs of the country’s 
readiness and preparedness for the 
digital economy, the main challenge 
Thailand is facing on its path towards 
Smart Economy is the fact that digital 
skills are mostly confined to select 
middle to high-income demographics. 
It is estimated that low-skilled workers 
make up 57% of Thailand’s total 
workforce, which is why high skill worker 
development is a major emphasis right 
now.
Another major challenge is access to 
venture capital for Thailand’s startup 
community, and in general, the difficulty 
entrepreneurs face when trying to go 
to market with a product. Innovation 
ecosystems for smart city startups is 
especially lacking.
Low skilled workers make up 57% of 
Thailand’s total workforce is
46.5 million Thais are 
registered for digital payment 
platform PromptPay
Thailand 
ranks 27th 
on the World 
Bank’s Ease 
of Doing 
Business 
Index 2019
57%
27th
Thailand ranks
OPPORTUNITIES 
With the noted shortage of high skilled 
workers, the country has set a number of 
measures to compete in attracting and 
retaining skilled groups by bypassing the 
typical four years residency application 
process for high skilled workers, investors, 
entrepreneurs, and start-up executives. 
Also a digital park project (see more in the 
next chapter) which aims to attract more 
than 100,000 developers hopes to spur 
interest in the sector.
Moreover, there is an objective to roll out 
a more advanced innovation system to 
improve citizens quality in every aspect, 
including technological assistance, 
competitive income, and a better welfare 
system, in particular in the Eastern 
Economic Corridor special-economic 
zone.
Foreign companies looking to expand 
overseas will find a welcoming business 
environment in Thailand, especially if 
involved in the manufacture, design or 
operations of advanced technologies. In 
particular, groups that have experience 
building innovation ecosystems and are 
skilled at skills development and matching 
promising new ventures with real-world 
needs and investors are currently a 
critical need in Thailand’s journey towards 
the smart economy.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
134

MDES, of course, plays a major role in 
the development of the digital economy, 
as a whole, and is the ministry most 
aligned with the mission of Smart 
Economy. In particular, depa’s core 
mission is to promote competitiveness 
in accordance with Thailand 4.0, and 
coordinate development projects 
amongst other government agencies, 
and the private sector, to build a healthy 
digital innovation marketplace in 
Thailand.
MINISTRY OF DIGITAL 
ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is tasked 
with overseeing the Smart Economy 
domain within Smart City Thailand. 
The Fiscal Policy Office is the central 
government body responsible for fiscal 
policy, and is the secretariat for Smart 
Economy. 
MOF also holds responsibility 
overseeing many state-run enterprises, 
including a number of state-owned 
banks, like the Government Savings 
Bank, the Small Business Credit 
Guarantee Corporation (SBCG), and 
the Small and Medium Enterprise 
Development Bank of Thailand (SME 
Bank). 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Key Players in 
Smart Economy
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE
The Ministry of Commerce (MOC) 
is responsible for trade, prices of 
important agricultural goods, consumer 
protection, entrepreneurship, insurance, 
intellectual property protection, and 
exports. 
The MOC works deliberately in boosting 
local entrepreneurs and businesses in 
digitalization and e-commerce.
The Ministry of Industry (MOI) is 
responsible for the promotion and 
regulation of industry, and therefore 
plays a key role in shaping the 
regulatory environment and standards 
of the smart city sector. 
In 2019, the Industry Network was 
created under the MOI to emphasise 
their commitment and cooperation in 
driving Thailand’s mission in the digital 
age.
The Bank of Thailand (BOT) is the 
central bank of Thailand, setting 
interest rates, helping to guard against 
economic crisis, and working to ensure 
transparency in the banking industry. 
In February 2020, BOT approved a 
regulatory sandbox to allow banks to 
use cross-bank identity verification 
through a National Digital ID (NDID) 
platform for opening bank accounts.
COMMERCIAL BANKS
Commercial banks and other private 
financial institutions play a vital role 
in providing financial support, as well 
as incubator programs to FinTech and 
other startup platforms.
There are approximately 20-30 
commercial banks in Thailand, the 
most prominent being Bangkok Bank 
(BBL), Kasikorn Bank (KBank), Siam 
Commercial Bank (SCB), and Krungsri 
Bank. 
BOARD OF INVESTMENT
The Board of Investment (BOI) plays a 
pivotal role in promoting and providing 
financial support for investment on 
smart city related industries, and offers 
incentives to companies or investors 
looking to import or help develop high-
skill workers in Thailand. 
BANK OF THAILAND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
COMPANIES
The major telecommunications 
companies, AIS, True Corp, dtac, and 
CAT Telecom, all support and provide 
incubation services for digital startups. 
CREATIVE ECONOMY 
AGENCY
TCDC, under the Creative Economy 
Agency (CEA), was founded to integrate 
the ingenuity of Thai society and culture 
with modern knowledge and technology.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
135

It provided startups the opportunity to work with 
government agencies from 5 Smart Cities such as 
Bangkok, Khon Kaen, Chonburi, Chiangmai and 
Phuket so companies could get in touch with relevant 
stakeholders in order to develop solutions.
Teams were expected to develop a Proof of Concept 
(POC) to test out possibilities of solutions to the problem 
presented by teams along with relevant stakeholders 
under real environment testing for 3 days. 
Through this process participants will be able to 
empathise and fully acknowledge the problems people 
are facing in different areas; where research and 
discovering will provide an in depth perspective in the 
making of a prototype.
Smart City 
Innovation Hubs
Smart city innovation hubs proactively engage 
with tech startups, big tech, financial and research 
institutions, city government, and everyday citizens to 
develop the necessary business ecosystems that make 
the smart city thrive.
Thailand has taken steps to develop these ecosystems, 
but leaders in the startup community have said that 
there is still much work to do. Access to venture capital 
is difficult, and existing innovation hubs have not quite 
cracked the code on how to involve citizens and city 
government in the process of developing solutions to 
urban challenges. 
BENEFITS
Mature smart city markets have established creative 
and innovation ecosystems that help new ideas come 
to market by matching entrepreneurs with city users 
and leaders, as well as involving investors to develop, 
test, and scale new products and solutions.
When innovation hubs are successful, markets grow 
organically, and government can play a smaller role in 
terms of financially supporting the the smart city market.
RELEVANCE
While R&D in Thailand is quite mature, the 
commercialisation process is still limited and hard 
to scale. There has yet to be a hybrid funding model 
that is kickstarted by the government sector but has 
more autonomy and flexibility, and Thailand has yet to 
develop the sharing economy act which will govern and 
help support new types of business models.
ONGOING INITIATIVE
depa Smart City Accelerator Program
depa Accelerator Program (ASEAN’s First Smart 
City Accelerator) was developed to support and act 
as a catalyst for digital startups entering into the 
smart city space. Running from November 2019 to 
March 2020, this program was presented by depa 
Thailand in collaboration with HUBBA Thailand and 
Techsauce Media Co., Ltd. 
The program aimed to develop potential digital 
startups where participants can grow through 
support system and maximise growth opportunities 
from the national scene to regional level.
The two month accelerator program in Bangkok 
hosted 5 practical sessions specially tailored to help 
expand and strengthen business knowledge.
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand136

OVERVIEW
The Connected Places Catapult offers inter-
national Innovation Hub support providing a 
catalyst for creating world-class innovation 
ecosystems across and between smart cities.
The role of the Innovation Hub is two-fold:
• Bridge the gap between research findings 
and outputs
• Provide a single point of access for cities 
to engage with the supply side
Including city-to-city knowledge 
sharing, Connected Places Catapult runs 
capacity building workshops with city leaders 
specifically on innovation and technology-
based city programmes to ensure cities’ full 
preparedness to readily accept innovation and 
technology-based programmes. 
These will cover areas such as: 
• City standards for innovation
• Procuring innovation services
• City data analysis and sharing
• User centred design of smart city services
• Developing prioritised roadmaps for city 
innovation programmes
CASE STUDY: NEW TOWN, KOLKATA 
Connected Places Catapult worked with 
key stakeholders in New Town to develop 
a proposal that is rooted in local needs and 
strategic priorities. Supported by the UK 
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development 
Office’s Prosperity Fund, they provided 
independent, expert support to New Town’s 
authorities, to help them realise their 
ambition and secure investment.
A roadmap that summarises the first stage 
of collaboration was produced. Intended 
both for New Town’s leaders and for 
suppliers seeking new business, it articulates 
opportunity areas in the city and provides 
a starting point to help shape, guide and 
implement strategic priorities over the 
coming years.
LEARN MORE
Connected Places Catapult offers 
other international services, including 
city standards development, testbed 
demonstrations, technical training, and 
more.
Website: cp.catapult.org.uk/international
INNOVATION HUB UK SUCCESS STORY: 
CONNECTED PLACES CATAPULT*
SERVICE ECOSYSTEM 
Innovation hubs bring together city and 
industry leaders, government workers, 
city users and smart city entrepreneurs 
to build common understanding around 
urban challenges, and learn innovation 
processes and how technology can be 
harnessed to address identified needs.
Once an established demand had 
been identified, then innovation hubs 
facilitators work to source relevant 
suppliers, either through development 
and incubation in a local ecosystem, or 
from outside markets where established 
suppliers meet the specified need, and 
match investors or funding.
COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES
The UK has one of the best innovation 
support systems in the world, and 
has led the way in terms of building 
the bridges between smart city 
stakeholders to work together on 
developing smart city solutions. 
Establishing and facilitating an 
innovation hubs, together with depa 
and other local stakeholders, could go 
a long way towards building the smart 
city marketplace in Thailand. In bringing 
UK innovation expertise to Thailand, UK 
supply chains can then be provided a 
direct entry point into the Thai market 
in real-time, as demand for smart city 
services is developed and grown.
*Source: Connected Places Catapult 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 137

DENSO Corporation is also undertaking 
a demonstration project to train lean 
automation system integrators (LASIs) 
through the cooperation with Japan 
External Trade Organisation (JETRO) as 
part of the Project for Nurturing New 
Industries in ASEAN. 
Delta Electronics Thailand (Taiwan) 
also worked with universities on the 
Delta Automation Academy 2018 to 
develop engineers for the automation 
industry through Smart IA Lab program, 
hosting automation and IA workshops 
for government officers of industry 
workers. 
High Skill Worker 
Development
SMART CITY SERVICE PRIORITY
The lack of high skilled workers 
is a major challenge for Thailand 
smart city development, and the 
development of the digital economy, 
as a whole. 
Recent estimates show that there are 
only 2.5% of the required workers 
with sufficient skill to fill 400,000 
positions available in the fields of 
innovation and technology, and 
this trend is expected to rise over 
475,000 by 2023. 
Thai government has established 
a variety of programmes and 
partnerships to expand the country’s 
capacity to train and match workers 
to in-demand sectors, though these 
programmes are limited in scope, and 
there are improvements that can be 
made in the information ecosystem 
so workers can clearly see how they 
could progress in their field, and what 
skills they will need to develop.
This presents an opportunity for 
institutions and companies with 
interest and capabilities in training 
high skilled workers, or designing 
and delivering government training 
programmes.
DEPA DIGITAL MANPOWER 
DEVELOPMENT
One of depa’s core missions is to 
develop and support upskilling and 
reskilling programmes related to the 
digital economy. Current programmes 
include Digital CEO trainings, Coding 
for Youth, and digital skill training for 
small and medium enterprise. Through 
the Digital Manpower Fund, depa offers 
a limited number of grants to support 
digital skills development for high 
demand skills and sectors.
Depa has partnered with Kasetsart 
University (KU), to launch Digital 
Academy Thailand, a project located 
at KU, Sriracha Campus in EEC, that 
provides digital upskilling short-courses. 
Depa also works with SCB Academy 
and Asia Institute of Technology (AIT) 
to support university students, fresh 
graduates, and vocational students with 
a Data Analytics for Upskilling Program 
that includes Data Analytics and Data 
Science Essentials, Exploratory Data 
Analysis with Critical Thinking, and 
Data Analytics Tools: Power BI, Data 
Visualization, Data Storytelling. 
Together with VISTEC and AI Research 
Institute of Thailand, Depa has 
also established the Junior Digital 
Ambassador Program. 
PRIVATE INDUSTRY SKILL 
DEVELOPMENT
Private associations such as Federation 
of Thai Industries (FTI) provide 
online courses and trainings on lean 
automation, production process 
improvement (Karakuri Kaisen), and 
leadership under their Human Capacity 
Building Institute (HCBI). 
Digital Council of Thailand (DCT) 
likewise host a Digital Learning Portal 
that collects online courses from 
platforms like eDX and Coursera, while 
Thai corporations like True and SCG also 
host a digital academy of their own. 
FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE THAI 
WORKFORCE
A number of established Japanese 
companies with longstanding ties 
to Thai industries like automotive 
and electronics manufacturing have 
invested in worker training programmes 
to bolster their own workforce, while 
also aiding in the longterm development 
of Thailand’s workers. 
For example, King Mongkut’s Institute 
of Technology Ladkrabang (KMITL) has 
established the Kozen project, together 
with Japanese companies to develop 
the practical engineers to supply 
Japanese factories. 
UK DIGITAL MANPOWER 
PARTNERSHIPS
UK higher education institutions offer several 
high-quality MOOCs and online programmes 
in relevant smart city fields (urban planning, 
computer engineer, geography, etc.). Finding 
a way to import and establish training and 
incubation programmes could provide great 
benefit for Thailand, while also providing a 
direct pipeline of specially trained workers 
for UK companies in Thailand and in the 
region. More advanced programmes can see 
the integration of advanced internships and 
training-for-trainer by UK companies and 
related academic programs. 
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand138

4
66 77 9
5
12
8
1
2
3
11
10
13
14
Bangkok 
Area-Based Projects
1
 
2
3
4
6
7
 
8
10
 
11
13
14
 
 
5
 
12
 
9
Bangkok’s megacity nature combined 
with the bureaucratic structure of 
governing bodies make it slow on the 
uptake and implementation of innovative 
ideas. It is happening but it cannot 
anticipate and overtake the needs and 
demands of private citizens yet. This is 
where the private sector has begun to 
step in and fill the gap.
Across Bangkok, private-led projects 
are in a race to develop parcels of 
land that would be considered more 
advanced than the rest of the city in 
asset products and services. Of note, 
these developments are incorporating 
smart city solutions that would in 
theory improve quality of life of people. 
However, these solutions would only 
benefit users that patronise these areas. 
Most likely the site specific solutions will 
not extend to the rest of the city.
These projects are not closed off to the 
government. Public agencies are in fact 
participating and becoming stakeholders 
of some of these area-based projects. 
Many are viewing these projects as 
testing ground for smart city solutions 
and waiting to see how successful and 
scalable they will be in the future. This 
section provides a quick look into some 
of these area-based projects.
Ongoing and Finished Private Sector-led Area-based 
Smart City Projects in Bangkok
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 139
Area: 0.13 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £495 Million
Timeline: 2017 - 2020
Location: 102 Rama IV Rd, Khlong Toei, Bangkok
Ongoing project
Finished project
Area: 0.17 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £2.9 Billion
Timeline: 2018 - 2026
Location: 1032 1-5 Rama IV Rd, Lumphini, 
Pathum Wan District, Bangkok
Area: 36,800 sq.m Status: Ongoing
Investment: £892 Millions
Timeline: 2017 - 2023
Location: 946 Rama IV Rd, Silom, Bang Rak, 
Bangkok
Area: 10 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £375 Million
Timeline: 2019 - 2021
Location: Rama 4 Road, Bangkok
Area: 10.18 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: N/A
Timeline: 2018 - 2037
Location: Soi Chulalongkorn 64, Wang Mai, 
Pathum Wan District, Bangkok 
Area: N/A Status: Ongoing
Investment: N/A
Timeline: N/A
Location: Wat Ratchabophit, Phra Nakhon 
Bangkok
Area: 3.7 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £12.3 Billion
Timeline: 2014 - 2032
Location: 336 Kamphaeng Phet 2 Alley, 
Chatuchak, Bangkok
Area: 0.63 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £3.09 Billion
Timeline: 2018 - 2022
Location: Bang Kaeo, Bang Phli District, 
Samut Prakan
Area: 0.18 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £240,000
Timeline: N/A
Location: 118 Seri Thai Rd, Khlong Chan, 
Bang Kapi District, Bangkok 
Area: 0.24 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: £3.4 Billion
Timeline: 2016 - 2024
Location: Makkasan, Ratchathewi, Bangkok
Area: 1.7 sq.km Status: Ongoing
Investment: N/A
Timeline: N/A
Location: Thanon Rama VI, Thung Phaya Thai, 
Ratchathewi, Bangkok
Area: 14,400 sq.m Status: Finished 
Investment: £123 Million
Completed in: 2016
Location: 2525 Rama IV Rd, Khlong Toei, 
Bangkok
Area: 22,400 sq.m Status: Finished
Investment: £222 Million
Completed in: 2019
Location: 944 Rama IV Rd, Wang Mai, 
Pathum Wan District, Bangkok
Area: 68,800 sq.m Status: Finished 
Investment: £741 Million
Completed in: 2019
Location: 101 Sukhumvit Rd, Bang Chak, 
Phra Khanong, Bangkok
The PARQ
One Bangkok
Dusit Central Park
Rama 4 Model
Chula Smart City
Rattanakosin Innovation 
District
Bang Sue Grand Station
The Forestias
NIDA Smart Compact City
Makkasan Complex 
Yothi Medical Innovation 
District
FYI Centre
Samyan Mitrtown True Digital Park

KING’S CROSS STATION
King’s Cross Station redevelopment in 
North London shows many parallels to 
the Bang Sue Grand Station project. More 
than 20 UK architects and designers 
helped bring King’s Cross into reality, 
including 10% of all energy coming from 
onsite solar, a combined heat and power 
(CHP) plant, and an integrated payment 
and mobility platform.
Bang Sue 
Grand Station
Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
State Railway 
of Thailand
Ministry of Land 
Infrastructure 
Transport and Tourism
Petroleum Authority of 
Thailand Group
Japan International 
Cooperation Agency
Office of 
Transportation and 
Traffic Policy and 
Planning 
Ministry of 
Transportation
Smart Environment 
• reduced noise pollution by using noise barrier
• expected to expand and connected green area
Smart Mobility 
• able to support the increased traffic volume 
• expected design to be flexible support, 
 convenient, reliable at an affordable price
• 40% increase of traveling by rail system
 
Smart Energy 
• expected to use solar power 
• expected to install a co-generation system to 
 generate District Cooling System
• expected to use AI to play a role in energy 
 management
Project Overview 
Bang Sue Grand Station is one of Thailand’s ongoing mega 
projects. It aims to create a new transportation hub located in 
Chatuchak District. The station will serve as a node for 
intercity trains, including high-speed rail, and Bangkok Mass 
Rapid Transit lines. Future plans will also include opening 
up tracks for Airport Rail Link and commuter trains. Upon 
completion, it is expected to be the largest railway station in 
Southeast Asia.
Area: 3.7 sq.km
Cost: £12.3 Billion 
Organisation: PPP
Implemented in: 2032
Timeline
2014 2018 2016 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032
Phase 1: Commercial Infrastructure
Zone A: 35 Rai
Zone D: Skywalk and commercial area
Cost = 40,000M Baht
Phase 3: Commercial Infrastructure
Zone D: repair station
Cost = 151,000M Baht
Phase 2: Commercial Infrastructure 
Zone B: Chatuchak
Zone G: KM 11 district
Zone C: Residential & Office
Zone D: repair
Cost = 167 ,000M Baht
Overall Project
Smart City infrastructure and 
station area development
Cost = 500,000M Baht
Investors
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand140

One Bangkok
Expected Outcome
Timeline
Smart City Domain
Investors
TCC Assets (Thailand) 
Company Limited
Frasers Property (Thai-
land) Public Company 
Limited
Smart Environment 
 • clean, green, and safe sustainable greenery
 
Smart People 
 
• people centric principles 
 • accessible, inclusive, and inspire new forms 
 of public participation
 • pedestrian-friendly circulation
 
Smart Living 
 • integrates smart technologies into 
 all aspects
 • smart parking and traffic management to 
 centralised security and safety
 • district cooling and energy management 
 systems
Project Overview 
One Bangkok is the largest private sector property development 
initiative ever to be undertaken in Thailand. It has an estimated 
investment value of over £2.9 billion. The project is building a 
new global mixed-use landmark with its first components opening 
in 2022. The vision is to create a place that people want to spend 
time in and completely integrated into the city fabric.
Area: 0.17 sq.km
Cost: £2.9 Billion
Organisation: Private 
 Sectors
Implemented in: 2026
Phase 1
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Overall Project
Phase 2
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 141

Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
Electronic 
Transactions 
Development 
Agency
True Corporation 
Public Company 
Limited
Action 
Community for 
Entrepreneur-
ship, Singapore
Wongnai Media 
Company Limited
Ricoh Company 
Limited
Digital Economy 
Promotion 
Agency
Magnolia Quality 
Development 
Corporation 
Limited
Amazon Web 
Services
Huawei Technol-
ogies Company 
Limited
Epson Corpo-
ration
National Innova-
tion Agency
Google
Cisco Systems
King Mongkut’s 
Institute of 
Technology 
Ladkrabang
Thailand 
E-Business 
Centre Company 
Limited
Microsoft 
Corporation
Smart Environment 
 • pavegen is the floor yields 5 watt per step
Smart Mobility 
 • multi-level bike lane and jogging track
 • reservation for parking via application
Smart Living 
 • heat map monitoring density in building
 • control lighting via tablet 
 • use robot in hospital
 • e-payment
 • smart access to building using application 
 or QR code
 • facial recognition
 • reservation for meeting room via application 
 • smart home automation
Project Overview 
True Digital Park aims to be the largest digital innovation hub 
in Southeast Asia and is the first and only one in Thailand 
where all digital lifestyle solutions needs, working and daily 
life have been fulfilled. Under the concept of “Digital Lifestyle 
– Connecting Possibilities”, the complex is designed with open 
space, interconnected structures, and a fully integrated startup 
ecosystem to enhance imagination and creative innovation. 
Area: 68,800 sq.m
Cost: £7 41 Million
Organisation: PPP
Implemented in: 2019
True Digital Park
PaveGen has developed an off-grid 
technology that converts the kinetic 
energy from footsteps into electricity to 
be stored in batteries, or used to power 
applications such as lighting and signage. 
PaveGen had their first installation in 
Thailand at True Digital Park.
Atelier Ten worked with MQDC to develop 
its overall sustainability vision for the True 
Digital Park. Atelier Ten incorporated Smart 
City Thailand features into the project which 
led the project to be one of seven projects 
to receive a smart city design award in the 
Smart Cities Clean Energy project held by 
the Energy Policy and Planning Office and 
the Thai Green Building Institute.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand142

Rama IV
Smart District
Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
Metropolitan Electricity 
Authority
Ministry of 
Transportation
SC Asset Corporation 
Public Company 
Limited
Toyota Mobility 
Foundation
Mass Rapid Transit 
Authority of Thailand 
Total Access 
Communication Public 
Company Limited
Central Group 
Company Limited
One Bangkok
Bangkok Metropolitan 
Administration
Chulalongkorn 
University
Samyan Mitrtown
Dusit Thani Public 
Company Limited
Smart Environment 
 • expected zero waste target with AI garbage 
 sorting climate monitoring
Smart Mobility 
 • multi-level (MRT and BTS) linkage
 • energy saving tram, EV bus, and car
 • solar street light 
Smart Energy 
 • greenhouse gas reduction
 • renewable energy
Smart Economy 
 • linkage between the project area and BMA 
 and Thailand
 • eCommerce and FinTech 
Smart People 
 • 5G/ Wi-fi 6 with cyber security warning 
Smart Living 
 • eHealth, TeleMed
 • smart home
Smart Governance
 • eGovernment networks
 • big data and data centre
 • open public data
Project Overview
Rama IV Smart District focuses on improving the Rama IV 
streetscape by building walking paths connecting significant 
real estate developments. In doing so, a unified mixed-use area 
will be created. The 13-kilometre long skywalk will also join two 
innovation zones - Siam and Kluay Nam Thai Innovation Districts. 
The mobility improvement will encourage foot traffic circulation.
Area: 10 sq.km
Cost: £375 Million
Organisation: PPP
Implemented in: 2038
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 143

Chula Smart City
Expected Outcome
Timeline
Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
Investors
Urban Design and 
Development Centre
Chulalongkorn 
University
Property 
 Management of 
Chulalongkorn 
University
Metropolitan Electricity 
Authority
Smart Environment 
 • using technology that can monitor 
 various environmental conditions 
Smart Mobility 
 • allow every system connect to Internet 
 of Things 
 • using eco vehicle with clean energy 
 innovation
 
Smart Energy 
 • expected to reduce 40% of energy 
 consumption
 • expected to reduce 30% of greenhouse 
 gas emissions 
 
Smart Living 
 • create a network to link to the database 
 in order to respond and support residents 
 and users for learning through technology
Project Overview 
Property Management of Chulalongkorn University (PMCU) has 
a vision to develop Sam Yan to become an innovation hub and 
smart city model that acknowledges and creates shared values 
for communities. It combines quality of life and business goals 
to achieve maximum benefits that are sustainable. The project 
focuses on four smart city domains listed below, dubbed “SMART 
4”.
Area: 10 sq.km
Cost: N/A
Organisation: PPP
Implemented in: 2037
Early-2018 Mid-2018 End-2018 Early- 2020 E arly-2022 Early-2037Mid-2020 Mid-2022 Mid-2037End-2020 End-2022
Block 28 - Creative & Start Up Village
Mixed use area: Commercial and Office area, 
 Startup companies already 
 occupied 70% of the area
Block 33 - Residential & Wellness
Mixed use area: Residential, commercial 
 and medical hub
Block 34 - Futurium & Exhibition Centre
Technology Exhibition Centre and 
top innovation showcase
Overall Project
Innovation and Creative District
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand144

NIDA Smart 
Compact City
-
Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
Ministry of Energy
Thai Green Building 
Institute
Office of Energy 
Conservation 
Promotion Fund
SSA Network (Thailand)
• energy saving 7 ,016,907 kWh per year
• carbon dioxide reduced 3,725.2 ton per year
• solar PV on roof 1.7 MW
• biogas from organic waste 27 ,280 m3 per year
• energy storage of battery 561 kW x 6h 
• EV bus in campus
• 1 charging station
• district cooling by 82%
Project Overview 
National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA) is a state 
higher education institution that is set to become a smart city in itself. 
The project aims to become an example of responsible community and 
urban development. Focuses are mainly on energy - reduction of energy 
demand and usage, implementation of alternative energy sources. As 
a byproduct, NIDA will reduce environmental impacts and make the 
development sustainable.
Area: 0.18 sq.km
Cost: £247 ,000
Organisation: Public 
 Sectors
Implemented in: N/A
*Partial budget disclosed at this time
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 145

Makkasan Complex
Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
State Railway of 
Thailand
Charoen Pokphand 
Group Company 
Limited
Bangkok Expressway 
and Metro Public 
Company Limited
Eastern Economic 
Corridor
Ministry of 
Transportation
Italian- Thai 
Development Public 
Company Limited
Magnolia Quality 
Development 
Corporation Limited
Ch. Karnchang Public 
Company Limited
China Railway 
Construction
 Corporation Limited
• National Railway Maintenance Centre
• new international commercial district
• waterfront promenade 
• connect primary and secondary road 
 with shuttle bus
• pedestrian friendly 
• bike lane
• complex project
• park and ride
Project Overview 
Makkasan Complex will contribute to the MICE industry, with 
developments revolving around shopping, convention venues, 
and medical institutions. It will be built on the vacant land around 
Airport Rail Link Makkasan Station, which is also the designated 
location of eastern high-speed rail linking three airports - Don 
Muang, Suvarnabhumi, and U-Tapao. This will make the complex a 
Bangkok gateway to the Eastern Economic Corridor . 
Area: 0.24 sq.km
Cost: £3.4 Billion
Organisation: PPP
Implemented in: 2023-2024
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand146

The Forestias
Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
Ministry of Energy
Magnolia Quality 
Development 
Corporation Limited
EEC Engineering 
Network Company 
Limited
Mulberry Grove
ITEC Entertainment 
Corporation
Six Senses Hotels 
Resorts Spas
The Aspen Tree
Foster + Partners 
Thailand
Atelier Ten (Thailand) 
Company Limited
Whizdom by MQDC
Smart Environment 
• protect air quality
• storage & collection of recyclable
• mitigate urban heat island
• flood resilience 
• storm water retention and grey water 
 irrigation
• good internal connectivity
Smart Mobility 
• EV charging stations 
• non polluting electric vehicles 
Smart Living 
• support social connection 
• educational elements 
• world class hospital with 350 beds 
• support physical activities and 
 mental restoration
• universal design
• pedestrian and cycling network
Smart Energy 
• renewable energy, purchase green power 
 and purchase carbon offsets
• district cooling and heating
• passive design enhanced by technology
Project Overview 
Magnolia Quality Development Corporation (MQDC) is building The Forestias 
which is a prototype for town development. The project is committed to 
creating a real estate that narrows the gap between residents and natural 
environment. In doing so, it will its promise of ‘well-being for all’. An environ-
mentally conscious design process will bring innovation and technology to 
be applied environment conservation. Another main focus is to ensure it is 
usable by at least four generations in families and societal demographic. 
Area: 0.63 sq.km
Cost: £3.09 Billion
Organisation: Private 
 Sectors
Implemented in: 2022
Foster + Partners Thailand is renowned 
for architecture, urbanism and design, 
rooted in sustainability. Foster + Partners 
Thailand designed the masterplan and 
architecture of the Forestias project 
to create pioneering solutions for 
intergenerational co-living and people-
centred connectivity between ecology 
and traditional Thai architecture. 
With the vision “Imagine Happiness,” 
Atelier Ten worked with MQDC’s design 
team to develop a new innovative 
masterplan development, incorporating 
innovative holistic strategies for 
The Forestias to be an exemplar 
development that leads Thailand market 
transformation towards a healthier and 
more sustainable environment.
Restrata were commissioned to develop 
the Security Masterplan, which provided 
clear vision and strategy for Physical 
Security provision, in particular for 
the public realm, the Pavilion and for 
the site wide infrastructure. Restrata 
were also further contracted to provide 
physical security design services for the 
Forestias.
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 147

Short-Term: 5 Years
- creating creative network through 
 online & offline platform
- access to rail system 
- improve traditional community 
 conditions by linking with the 
 creative economy
- create incubator area workshops 
 and performing space
Rattanakosin
Innovation District
Expected Outcome
Timeline
Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
National Innovation 
Agency
Urban Research and 
Laboratory Group
Silpakorn Uniersity Old Bangkok Innovation 
District
Smart Environment 
 • digital infrastructure
 • cultural heritage is preserved and 
 utilised appropriately 
Smart Economy 
 • a place of incubation and accelerating 
 startups about creative work
Smart People 
 
• constant creative activities in the district
 create an entrepreneurial culture
 creative industries were connected 
 and interacted
Project Overview 
Rattanakosin Innovation District aims to become a leading creative 
economy hub in Southeast Asia. Silpakorn University is to be a centre 
for the development of creative and business skills. Developments will 
include business and housing innovations, travel and lifestyle services, and 
coworking spaces for activities and integration. Pak Klong Talad, Sampeng 
Phahurat, Ratchadamnoen Road, Tha Chang, Tha Maharat, and Bang 
Lamphu are strategic locales in the plan.
Area: N/A
Cost: N/A
Organisation: Public 
 Sectors
Implemented in: N/A
Year 1 Year 5 Year 10 Year 20
Long-Term: 20 Years
- entrepreneurship culture creative economy
- centre of social groups linked to contemporary 
 culture
- smart city, TOD and green city
- growth Poles that drive the creative economy 
 and create changes in the economic structure 
 of Thailand in the 4.0 era
Medium-Term: 10 Years
- create the identity of the neighborhood 
 that combines between traditional culture 
 and creative culture
- green city concept
- smart infrastructure
- SMEs mobilise innovative and creative ideas
- smart tourism
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand148

Yothi Medical
Innovation District
Expected Outcome Smart City Domain
Relevant Stakeholders
National Innovation 
Agency
Ministry of Higher 
Education Science, 
Research and 
Innovation
International Business 
Machines Corporation
Bangkok Metropolitan 
Administration
Cat Telecom Public 
Company Limited
Dell Incorporated
Ministry of Education
Ministry of Public 
Health
Thai Embedded 
Systems Association
Smart Mobility 
• connecting walking footpath
• public transport links within the district
Smart Economy 
• promoting measures & policies to 
 support innovation investment
• medical database development
• innovation promotion area
Smart Living 
• linking information and communication 
 technology tech startup community
• connecting IoT to everything for efficiency
• medical service centre 
• medical research & startup
Project Overview 
Yothi Medical Innovation District consists of developing and connecting 
medical institutions, educational institutions, residential spaces, 
research units, restaurants, cafes, and co-working spaces. The focus is 
to make an area conducive for meetings and the exchange ideas that 
lead to medical innovations that can be brought to the global market. 
The area already contains many medical institutions, which reflects 
its potential to be a prototype development area and investment in 
medical industry of Thailand. 
Area: 1.7 sq.km
Cost: N/A
Organisation: Public 
 Sectors
Implemented in: N/A
Chapter 3: Bangkok Smart City Deep Dive | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 149

If Thailand were a wheel, then Bangkok is the centre 
that every other city revolves around. 
It is no secret that Bangkok commands 
a disproportionate amount of attention and 
investment from its own government.
The government recognises that Bangkok cannot 
be the only city in the country that has everything. 
Bangkok’s growth if left unchecked will become 
unmanageable. Wealth and opportunities must be 
distributed to secondary cities so they can grow and 
support the population around them in 
a sustainable manner. 
To assist in this, Smart City Thailand has begun to 
clearly identify and support select pilot cities.

Though often called ‘secondary cities’, nearly 85% of 
Thailand’s population lives in the cities, towns and villages 
outside of Bangkok. A major emphasis of the country’s 
development goals and smart city agenda is to support 
the places and people living in other regional hubs to 
grow into stronger centres of activity and build a more 
balanced and sustainable model for Thailand’s future 
growth.
This chapter highlights six such cities and provinces, 
including progress reports on Smart City Thailand’s first 
pilot cities, as well as the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) 
special-economic zone that is a major economic engine 
for the future of the nation.
Chapter 4
EEC & Pilot Cities

Eastern Economic 
Corridor
The Eastern Economic Corridor, or EEC, 
is a special-economic zone established 
in early 2017. Encompassing the eastern 
seaboard to the east and southeast of 
Bangkok, it includes three provinces 
that border the Gulf of Thailand, 
Chachoengsao, Chonburi, and Rayong, 
that are home to much of the country’s 
major industrial activity, together 
making up approximately 13,266 km
2 
and with an estimated population of 
nearly three million.
EEC is a key component of the Thailand 
4.0 policy, receiving substantial support 
from central leadership and being 
granted a budget of THB 1.5 trillion 
(£37.6 billion) over its first five years. 
BUSINESS & INVESTMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES
EEC promotes investment into 12 key 
industries that have been strategically 
chosen to position Thailand as an 
innovation hub in the region, and help 
the country escape the ‘middle-income 
trap’. Many of these industries would 
bolster the local smart city market, as 
they are in industries related to digital 
technology and innovation. These 
industries include: 
1. Next-generation Automotive
2. Intelligent Electronics
3. Advanced Agriculture & 
Biotechnology
4. Food for the Future
5. High-value and Medical Tourism
6. Automation and Robotics
7. Aviation and Logistics
8. Medical and Comprehensive 
Healthcare
9. Biofuel and Biochemical
10. Digital Technology
11. Defense
12. Education and Human Resource 
Development
The Eastern Economic Corridor Office 
of Thailand (EECO) is the public agency 
responsible for business facilitation and 
overseeing implementation of the EEC 
master plan. 
In accordance with the EEC Act, EECO 
holds the equivalent power and authority 
as other government agencies to approve, 
permit, and grant rights and concessions 
for relevant projects.
EASTERN ECONOMIC 
CORRIDOR OFFICE (EECO)
INCENTIVES & SCHEMES
The EEC Act of 2019 established specific 
tax incentives and investment schemes 
for promoted zones and the specified 
industries. Investment incentive schemes 
for 2020-21 include:
• Tax holidays & deductions
• Import duty exemptions
• Currency exchange exemptions
• Land ownership
• Immigration and visa exemptions
LEARN MORE:
Website: www.eeco.or .th
Contact: info@eeco.or .th
EEC AND THE SMART CITY
EEC is viewed as a new model of regional 
development in Thailand and is expected 
to act as a showcase for the deployment 
of smart city concepts and technologies 
throughout the special-economic zone. 
Plans are already underway to develop 
Thailand’s first high-speed rail (HSR) 
in EEC, connecting Don Mueang, 
Suvarnabhumi and U-Tapao international 
airports, with stops at key locations 
along the way. Each one of these 
locations is expected to follow a transit-
oriented development (TOD) model, 
incorporating smart city best practices in 
the process.
Much of this future development hinges 
on the success of the HSR. In late 
2019, Charoen Pokphand Holding (CP 
Group) signed a THB 224.5 billion (£5.6 
billion) contract to build the railway, 
and construction is expected to begin 
sometime in 2021, though delays have 
occurred.
Other smart city related initiatives are 
being pursued in the many industrial 
parks, as EEC grants special access to 
BOI incentives for upgrading existing 
infrastructure with smart technologies 
for better energy efficiency, productivity, 
and environmental outcomes.
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand152

BAN GKOK
CHA CHOEN GS AO
CHONB URI
RAY ONG
High-speed 
Rail TOD
Major cities 
in the EEC
EEC Promoted 
Zones
High-speed 
Rail
EEC has designated 21 Promoted Zones 
to be a location for the 12 targeted 
industries where investors will be 
eligible to receive both tax and non-tax 
privileges. 
EECMD - MEDICAL HUB
EECmd is projected to be Thailand’s 
first medical hub, where the area 
would offer complete health care and 
medical services. EECmd aims to elevate 
Thailand’s health services and equip the 
country for the expansion of its aging 
population.
EECD - DIGITAL PARK
EECd is the future destination for digital 
global players and digital biz innovators 
to explore, develop, and acquire original 
digital technology for thriving digital 
business. It consists of the world-class 
data centre, digital innovation testbed 
and IoT institutes which are fully 
equipped with high-tech facilities.
EEC PROMOTED ZONES
In addition, five area-based projects 
are being promoted for smart city 
development (seen on the map to the 
right).
EECH - HIGH-SPEED RAIL RIBBON
EECh consists of High-Speed Railway 
and Transit-Oriented Development 
areas (TOD), located at the Makkasan 
and Si Racha station, measuring 140 Rai 
(22.4 Hectares) and 25 Rai (4 Hectares), 
respectively
EECI - INNOVATION PLATFORM
EECi is a novel ecosystem designed 
to promote innovation and upgrade 
modern technology that will serve 
future business needs. A complete 
“innovation ecosystem” will transform 
technological and innovation research 
into practical industrial applications.
EECA - EASTERN AIRPORT CITY
EECa consists of business and facilities 
in the U-Tapao International Airport, 
including a commercial gateway, a 
cargo terminal, an aviation training 
centre, an MRO centre, and Free 
Trade Zone that will enhance business 
operations and provide a world-class 
experience for everyone.
Eastern Economic Corridor Promotion Zones 
for Smart City Development
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 153

Chonburi
Area: 3.5 km2 / 228.8 km2
Population: 27,815 / 322,057
Population density: 7,947.14 per km2/ 
1,484.26 per km2
Chonburi is a city approximately 90 km to the east 
of Bangkok. It is a key strategic city in the Eastern 
Economic Corridor (EEC) for international logistics, 
industry, tourism, and naval defence. It has the third-
largest Gross Provincial Product in Thailand following 
Rayong and Bangkok metropolitan.
CURRENT STATE OF THE SMART CITY
Chonburi is home to smart city projects of various 
scales, from state down to local levels. A few local 
government-led smart cities, such Pattaya and Saensuk, 
and several private projects are in the provincial city 
area. 
Through the EEC development plan, Chonburi is 
designated a centre for sea-air-land logistics. The 
transportation modes intersect and complement 
each other and are expected to boost the economy of 
Chonburi. Smart city projects include:
• Pattaya Mice City
• Saensuk Smart City
• Sriracha Smart City
• Laem Chabang Port
• Utapao Airport City
• EEC High-speed and 
Double track Freight
• WHA Industrial Estate
These aim to enhance the productivity of the city in 
logistics, industry, and tourism and improve citizen 
livelihood in general.
Chonburi A crucial project pushing Chonburi towards becoming a 
smart city is the intercity high-speed rail, which is projected 
to bring business opportunities. The city has various types 
of smart city projects geared towards advanced industry, 
logistics, tourism, and more. 
SMART CITY DRIVERS
Smart cities in Chonburi are driven by actors across 
both private and public sectors. Pattaya, Saensuk, 
and Sriracha are driven through the local authority 
initiatives. The projects initiated in Pattaya and 
Saensuk are focused on improving community 
efficiency and sectors of energy, mobility, and health. 
Sriracha is planning a large-scale infrastructure 
development which will include housing complexes. 
Regional logistics infrastructure projects are mostly in 
the form of public-private partnerships. The investment 
in these infrastructure alone top approximately 
half a trillion Baht (£13 billion). The state agencies 
are commissioning several private enterprises in 
investment deals. Charoen Phokphand Group is to 
build and operate high-speed rail. BBS, a consortium 
of multiple large companies, is to build and operate 
Utapao Airport. 
Private initiative projects are of significance in the 
development of Chonburi. These are mostly housing, 
commercial, or industrial projects. Each will be 
equipping developments with advanced technology 
that are limited to within their own premises.
www.eeco.or .th/
www.saensukcity.go.th/
pattaya.smartcitythailand.or .th/
LEARN MORE
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Utapao Airport City 
Utapao airport city is a project that will retrofit the 
current Utapao airport to make it into an aviation 
industrial area. Utapao is located to the east of Bangkok 
and will be connected to the new high-speed and freight 
rail to two other major airports in Bangkok. The city aims to 
become a commercial gateway for aviation activity via the 
establishment of a free trade zone with facilities for air cargo, 
and maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities.
Pattaya
Pattaya is currently developing itself to become 
a MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences 
and Exhibitions) city by improving capability of the city 
infrastructure and facilities. This includes building and 
augmenting venues, an environment and disaster warning 
system, IoT governance, and surveillance camera network 
for safety. 
Laem Chabang Port - 3
rd phase 
Laem Chabang Port - 3rd phase is an extension 
of the current Laem Chabang port to increase 
the capability of the deep-sea logistic centre. The goal is to 
increase container freight handling by 10 million containers, 
1 million cars from the current capacity. The project includes 
new ports, freight rail, and improved port automated 
operation systems. 
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand154

Maptaphut industrial Port Phase 3 
The extension of the industrial port in the third 
phase aims to increase production capacity, 
specifically a deep-sea dock for liquid cargo, especially liquid 
energy, LNG. In this third phase, 1000 Rai (1.6 km
2) of land is 
being reclaimed in the Gulf of Thailand.
Wangchan Valley
Wangchan Valley is a PTT research and 
development institute. The objective is to become 
a knowledge hub with a focus on upskilling people starting 
from high school onwards in fields of science, engineering 
and research. Field specialties include modern vehicle, 
automation, aerospace, medical, energy, agriculture, and 
biotechnology. 
Rayong
Area: 16.95 km2 (Municipal) / 
514.5 km2 (City District)
Population: 64,256 / 282,312 
Population density: 3,576 per km
2 / 
548.71 per km2
Rayong is a city in the Eastern region of Thailand 
approximately 180 km away from the capital. The city is a 
strategic hub for industry and logistics. It is home to the 
industrial estate and deep-sea port in Maptaphut. Despite 
having a relatively smaller population size compared to 
other major Thai cities, Rayong has the highest Gross 
Provincial Product per capita in the country.
CURRENT STATE OF THE SMART CITY
Rayong, as a part of the Eastern Economic Corridor 
(EEC), is one of the key strategic cities considered as 
an economic driver in Thailand’s 20-year plan. It has 
attracted investment from both public and private 
spheres. Major initiatives include:
• Double track logistic railway 
• Maptaphut deep seaport phase 3 
• PTT Wangchan Valley - Research, Development and 
academy for science and 4.0 Industry
• Smart City Rayong (Smart Housing, Hospitality, EV 
bus, Startup House, and Commercial Complex (Smart 
Block Project?))
These four projects aim to enhance productivity by 
increasing both capacity and capability of services. 
In doing so, Rayong is to become a leading advanced 
industrial hub of Southeast Asia.
Rayong
Logistics and research and development institute are major 
strategic points driving Rayong towards being transformed 
into a leading industrial hub of Southeast Asia.
SMART CITY DRIVERS
Rayong’s development is driven by key actors from both 
the public and private sectors. Aside from the Eastern 
Economic Corridor Office of Thailand (EECO), the State 
Railway of Thailand (SRT) is in charge of the double-
track EEC logistics rail. The local authorities in provincial, 
district, and subdistrict levels act as hosts for project 
implementation.
In the private sector , state-owned petrochemical 
enterprise PTT is investing in a research and 
development institution (EECi) that has a goal to 
become a leading knowledge hub in six manufacturing 
and innovation industries. Origin Property has 
representation in the city municipality to help develop 
their smart city via housing, hospitality, transportation, 
and commercial projects.
Rayong has also adopted the City Development 
Corporation model. Rayong City Development (RYCD) is 
focused on mitigating urban and citizen risks that may 
be borne of industrial development. Currently, there is 
no announced initiative from RYCD.
www.eeco.or .th/
 
LEARN MORE
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 155

Chachoengsao
Area: 12.76 km2 / 378.7 km2
Population: 39,233 / 162,230 
Population: 3,074 per km2 / 
428.38 per km2
Chachoengsao is a coastal province located directly 
east of Bangkok. Most of the provincial border between 
Bangkok and Chachoengsao are agricultural and flood 
basin zones, and the urban fabrics of the two are 
completely separated. The city has the sixth largest 
Gross Provincial Product per Capita in the country, with 
industry making up 70% of its total productivity.
CURRENT STATE OF THE SMART CITY
Chachoengsao is set to be a strategic area of Bangkok 
expansion and the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). 
In the proposed plan, it is to host the expansion of the 
central government facilities from Bangkok, turning 
Chachoengsao into a central governance - satellite city. 
Projects are heavily focused on optimising governance 
to provide advanced services at local, regional, and 
national levels. The city expects a huge infrastructural 
change in parallel to match increasing demand in the 
following:
• Smart Mobility
• Smart Living and Housing
• Smart Economy
Chachoengsao will be home to a high-speed train station 
that is one of the two service depots along the 220 km 
long high-speed program. The high-speed station will 
play a critical role in the expansion of Chachoengsao as it 
will result in capacity, traffic flow, and economic gains for 
other related development projects.
Chachoengsao
Despite the province being a part of EEC, there are only 
minor initiatives on the urban infrastructure change for 
Chachoengsao. Nevertheless, it will still host the high speed 
train maintenance facility, and improve its educational 
system as response to the demand for services for EEC.
HSR Depot
Chachoengsao is set to host one of two EEC 
High Speed rail depots. It is situated on a 300 Rai 
(0.48 km2) area of land between Suvarnabhumi airport and 
Chachoengsao HSR station. The depot is a part of the HSR 
civil engineering budget approximately 113 billion Baht (£2.8 
billion).
Skill and Re Skill education program
With the budget of 1,636,605,000 Baht (£41.28 
million) provided by the city, Chacheongsao 
plans to uplift its school utilities, facilities and program 
in response to the demand of skilled and semi-skilled 
workers for EEC focusing on 10 industry services i.e. Food 
for The Future, Digital Economy, Medical Hub, Automation, 
Robotics, Aviation and Logistics, Agricultural and 
Biotechnology, Smart Electronics Affluent, Medical and 
Wellness Tourism, and Next-Generation Automotive
SMART CITY DRIVERS
The driver for Chachoengsao smart city is largely 
the central government through the EEC proposal. 
The regional scale transit infrastructure, government 
facilities, Chachoengsao’s central location between 
three major airports, and EEC investment privileges 
will have a high impact on the city’s development path 
directly and indirectly. 
Industrial estates as a group is another influential 
driver . Despite projects being limited to the confines of 
their premises, the cumulative environmental, social, 
and economic changes are likely to make impacts 
citywide considering their large contribution to city 
productivity and jobs.
Chachoengsao local authority is the local driver who 
is responsible for implementing the provincial and 
city scale initiatives. These are mainly focused on 
city infrastructure and digitisation of governance to 
increase Chachoengsao readiness for the massive 
changes from the regional development.
Chachoengsao Province: www.cgd.go.th
Chachoengsao Municipality: www.chachoengsao.go.th
LEARN MORE
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand156

Phuket
Area: 12 km2 / 224 km2
Population: 79,308 / 250,474 
Population density: 6,609 per km2 
/ 1,118.19 per km2
Despite being the second smallest province in Thailand, 
Phuket is a major international tourist destination known 
for its scenic environment and cultural heritage. The 
island is accessible via land, sea and air transportation. 
Phuket had more than 10 million visitors in 2017 with 
approximately. between 60,000 to 90,000 hotel rooms 
in service.
CURRENT STATE OF THE SMART CITY
Phuket is pioneering smart city projects in Thailand. 
It aims to become a MICE (Meetings, Incentives, 
Conferences and Exhibitions) city. The city has partnered 
with several local and global partners to create their 
development alliance. The city has set a clear vision and 
masterplan and commissioned a recommendation white 
paper. The focuses for Phuket are Smart Transit, Smart 
Tourism, Smart Energy. 
Development projects include: 
• City development corporation 
• Public transportation - Smart Bus
• Cashless initiative
• City data platform
Initiatives such as LRT, solar renewable energy source, 
smart grid, surveillance camera network, and smart 
public lighting network are included in their future plan. 
Phuket
SMART CITY DRIVERS
Phuket smart city is a sphere of city development 
projects led by Phuket City Development Corp (PKCD). 
The corporation is spearheading development with 
a number of government and public sector partners. 
Similar to other Thai cities, PKCD is mainly partnered 
with Phuket town hall administration and Digital 
Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA).
DEPA played a key role in Phuket’s development 
framework when it partnered with Huawei, a global 
technology company who is currently leading in 
5G technology rollouts. Together , they released the 
framework for the Phuket development plan through 
technology with support from consulting firm Roland 
Berger .
PKCD has also established partnerships with domestic 
partners such as Rabbit payment company to develop 
a cashless system. The Mass Rapid Transit Authority of 
Thailand is set to build and operate the Phuket - Phan 
Nha LRT system. PKCD created its own enterprise 
entities with affiliate corporations. These include Phuket 
Smart Bus, Economic Center Development, and City 
Data Analytics, each to oversee their own initiated 
projects.
Phuket City Development Corporation
Website: www.pkcd.co.th
LEARN MORE
Phuket currently has several ongoing projects for its 
ambition to become the first smart city of the southern 
region and a MICE city. The goal for smart city development 
is to enhance their economy, governance, services, and 
citizen wellbeing.
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Project Phuket LRT
Phuket LRT is the first phase of the Inter-city rail 
(Phuket - Phang Nga - Surat Thani). The project 
aims to connect the airport and several parts of the city with 
21 stations along the line. The estimation of the project cost is 
approximately 35 billion Baht (£1 billion).
Project 2 City Data Platform
The city data platform is a project which has 
already begun service, but the system is currently 
undergoing improvements. The project is being overseen by 
City Data Analytics and available via phuket.cloud. It provides 
essential city information for public use.
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 157

Khon Kaen
Area: 46 km2
Population: 114,459
Population density: 2,488/km2
Khon Kaen is located in the centre of the northeast 
region of Thailand, also known as Isan. Approximately 
450km north-northeast of Bangkok, Khon Kaen is 
an important transportation and logistics hub in the 
region, as it lies at the crossroads of east-west Highway 
12 and north-south Highway 2, or the “Friendship 
Highway” that connects Bangkok and the Thai-Laos 
Friendship Bridge at Nongkhai. 
CURRENT STATE OF THE SMART CITY
Khon Kaen has developed one of the most robust 
strategic visions for smart city development in the 
country, Khon Kaen Smart City 2030, established 
after nearly two decades of dialogue between a broad 
network of local stakeholders. The strategy outlines 
three major pillars of development:
• Being a rail city (LRT)
• Being a centre for conferences and seminars 
(MICE City)
• Being a medical hub
All three are based on further establishing Khon Kaen 
as the ‘Gateway of the Northeast’. Its strategic location 
at the centre of Isan, together with a new central train 
station and expanding airport, means the city is well 
positioned for strong growth as one of Thailand’s up 
and coming secondary cities.
Khon Kaen
At the foundation of Khon Kaen’s comprehensive vision 
are the strategic pillars of infrastructure development (LRT, 
bus, and urban design) and smart technologies and data 
capabilities (WiFi, sensor networks, and data analytics).
 Light Rail Transit (LRT) 
 Khon Kaen Transit System Co. (KKTS), founded in 
 2017 and funded by Khon Kaen Think Tank, has 
plans for a 26 km light rail network that will feature 18 to 21 
stations, take two years to complete, and will cost 15 billion 
baht. The Land Traffic Management Commission (LTMC), 
a national think tank for transportation policy, has already 
given its support for the plan, and it is now awaiting approval 
before the Thai Cabinet before bidding on the project can 
begin. Construction is expected to begin by the end of 2020.
 Smart City Operations Center (SCOPC)
 Khon Kaen University has already built and
 began testing a Smart City Operation Center 
(SCOPC) on its campus to prepare the data platform needed 
to realise Khon Kaen’s smart city plans. KKU is invested in 
research and development to train its faculty, students and 
public and private citizens in smart data analytics capabili-
ties, and is positioned to become a Thai leader in the field. 
SMART CITY DRIVERS
Khon Kaen Smart City is driven by an engaged Khon 
Kaen Municipality, and an innovative group of public 
sector partners, local private entrepreneurs, and a 
heavily involved local university, Khon Kaen University 
(KKU). depa is also an important strategic partner .
What makes Khon Kaen Smart City standout from 
other initiatives in the country is the major presence 
of an engaged private sector . Khon Kaen City 
Development Co. LTD, or Khon Kaen Think Tank 
(KKTT), brings together 20 local businesses to develop 
the seed finance for a local, municipal infrastructure 
fund. 
The innovative finance model is driven by a THB 
200m investment (£5.23m) by the founding 
members of KKTT, which will be used to catalyze 
the development of the LRT network. TOD will then 
be leveraged through a public offering, of which the 
capital gains will be used to finance the rest of the 
2030 agenda.
Khon Kaen City Development Co. Ltd
Website: www.khonkaenthinktank.com
Contact: info@khonkaenthinktank.com
LEARN MORE
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand158

Chiang Mai LRT 
Chiang Mai LRT or Chiang Mai Transit Red Line 
(CMTR) is a proposed 15.9 km tram line, the 
first ever metro rail transit in Chiang Mai. The project will 
contain 16 stations both above and underground. CMTR 
is has cumulative budget of approximately 27 billion Baht 
(£690 million) 
Walking Street
Chiang Mai Walking Street project is aiming 
to develop a digital platform for mobility and 
commercial purpose as a citykey. The digitalisation 
aim provided services and benefits for users such as a 
virtual guidebook, vouchers for products and services to 
conveniences and promote their local economy to citizens 
and tourists.
CMU Transit
Chiang Mai University (CMU) provides a free 
shuttle service for staff and students to travel 
within the main campus (known as Suan Sak Campus), 
using battery-powered cars, buses, and vans. This is part 
of an environmental awareness campaign to encourage 
students and staff to use energy-saving vehicles. The 
aim of the service is to minimise the use of personal cars 
or motorcycles, which will in turn alleviate the traffic 
congestion within the university.
Chiang Mai
Area: 40.22 km2 / 152.4 km2
Population: 127,240 / 233,632 
Population density: 3,212 per 
km2 / 1,533 per km2
Chiang Mai is a major city in the northern region of 
Thailand. The city is known for its cultural and natural 
assets. The combination of urban and rural areas makes 
Chiang Mai a global tourist destination. It is home to 
the region’s largest airport, while being accessible via 
road and rail. Chiang Mai is also a home to a few leading 
institutes including Chiang Mai University.
CURRENT STATE OF THE SMART CITY
Chiang Mai is the city leading smart city projects in 
the northern region and was one of the first cities to 
announce its plan in Thailand. Similar to other tourist 
destinations, Chiang Mai aims to become a MICE 
(Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions) city 
. The Chiang Mai smart city masterplan is derived from 
Smart City Thailand’s seven domains. 
Initiatives mainly involve the following domains:
• Smart Living
• Smart Mobility
• Smart Environment 
Their initiatives are set to address issues which have 
been problematic for becoming a MICE city, such as 
pollution, traffic, accommodation, safety, and services. 
Chiang Mai
Chiang Mai has a long list of initiatives to be implemented 
within the seven domains of Smart City Thailand. It aims 
to become a MICE city and to resolve the long-standing 
issues of mobility and environment, which includes smog 
pollution that happens every year . The goal for smart city 
development is to enhance their economy, governance, 
services, and wellbeing of citizens.
SMART CITY DRIVERS
Chiang Mai smart city initiative is very diverse in its 
projects, which are aligned with several stakeholders 
from both government and private organisations. Most 
of the projects are included within the city budget, 
hence making the Chiang Mai Provincial Authority the 
main oversight body. Local drivers vary from provincial 
to sub district levels.
Another significant actor is the Chiang Mai City 
Development Corporation (CMDC), a private body 
pushing for smart city development. Their flagship 
initiative is Light Rail Transit (LRT), a partnership with 
Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand (MRTA) to 
construct and operate the first metro rail transit in 
Chiang Mai.
There are also several other public agencies, such 
as Chiang Mai University (CMU), Digital Economy 
Promotional Agency (DEPA), Provincial Electricity 
Authority (PEA), The National Broadcasting and 
Telecommunications Commission (NBTC) and others 
that are invested in Chiang Mai.
Chiang Mai Smart City: www.chiangmai.go.th
Chiang Mai LRT - MRTA: www.mrta.co.th
Chiang Mai LRT - Red Line: www.chiangmai-transitredline.com
LEARN MORE
PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS
Chapter 4: EEC & Pilot Cities | Smart City Handbook: Thailand 159

These six pilot cities will be joined by many others in 
Smart City Thailand’s programme. Just like cities in 
the UK when the smart city drive started, each will 
have to look to itself for what opportunities there might 
be for transformation.
Local city authorities will soon require the help from 
subject matter experts in both public and private 
sectors to aid in planning and execution. However, 
these SMEs need not wait for calls for proposals. 
Contact can be made now so relationships are 
nurtured and needs are better understood. Only then 
will SMEs be truly well positioned to help.

With the basics of smart city laid out in previous chapters, 
Thai actors can now begin to analyse their own cities with 
a critical lens. Then, they must come up with their own 
vision and roadmap based on their city’s context. But 
they need not reinvent the wheel. International smart city 
leaders, such as those in the UK, can proactively contact 
stakeholders or be called upon to assist. This chapter 
concludes on next steps that could be taken.
What’s next?

The UK as a Leader and 
Partner
Through decades-long progress in improving cities, 
both the UK Government and private enterprises have 
accumulated a significant amount of know-how and 
lessons learned in smart city implementation. One 
look at smart city ranking of UK cities can reveal how 
far ahead they are in digitizing its infrastructure and 
services. 
Other countries can work with UK entities to look 
through how smart city projects have been executed 
and tease out applicable best practices to experiment 
in their own cities. The UK has much to provide with 
their wealth of experience in both successes and 
errors and are willing and ready to share with those 
who taking their own smart city journeys. 
Throughout the remainder of this handbook you will 
find examples of how the UK has partnered with both 
public and private partners around the world.
PARTNERS IN GOVERNMENT 
As seen from the short history of UK’s own smart 
city endeavors, many UK Government and municipal 
bodies have participated and collaborated on projects 
that take advantage of technological development 
to respond to growing demands of smart citizens. 
They are open to assisting other nations in the same 
manner. Others can learn from their libraries of 
publicly available resources, such as that of British 
Standards Institute. More engaging partnerships are 
also possible, with services offered by many bodies. 
Connected Places Catapult (CPC), the UK’s centre 
of excellence for urban and mobility innovation, 
operates at the intersection between public and 
private sectors and between local government 
and transport authorities. CPC focus on growing 
businesses with innovations in mobility services 
and the built environment that enable new levels of 
physical, digital and social connectedness. Through 
their Global Programme, CPC help places around the 
world to design and develop programmes that grow 
innovation companies, scale high impact solutions to 
city challenges, future proof economies and form cross 
government bilateral business agreements for long 
term investments.
The best way to start engaging potential public bodies 
is by: 
Contact the British Embassy Bangkok at info.
bangkok@fcdo.gov.uk 
PARTNERS IN ENTERPRISE
The UK’s market making approach and propensity 
for public-private partnership has created a group 
of smart city enterprises that offer a wide range 
of products and services. From tangible goods like 
smart meters to more intangible knowledge like smart 
services consultation, these UK suppliers can augment 
and improve other countries’ projects to upgrade their 
cities. Department for International Trade (DIT) is able 
to assist in connecting you with the most suitable UK 
partners.
Please get in touch at Thailand.dit@fcdo.gov.uk
PARTNERS IN RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
A number of university collaborations bring together 
different expertise and facilities from across 
the UK and interdisciplinary research centres in 
universities connect leading edge research in different 
departments with public and private partners. 
International research collaborations and partnerships 
on smart cities bring new ideas into the UK research 
environment, and help support emerging markets 
like Thailand around the world. These can be some of 
the most fruitful ways to develop the specialised skills 
needed in the smart city space.
Learn more at UK Research & Innovation www.ukri.org
What’s Next? | Smart City Handbook: Thailand162

Department for 
International Trade (DIT) 
The Department for International Trade is the 
specialist Government department that supports: 
• Foreign companies seeking to set up or expand in 
the UK, and 
• UK-based companies to trade internationally. 
The Department for International Trade provides a 
fully integrated advisory service, delivering the latest 
business intelligence through a global network of 
commercial teams worldwide. 
The Department for International Trade works in 
close partnership with investment and economic 
development agencies in England, Scotland, Wales 
and Northern Ireland to help overseas companies to 
maximise their business objectives in the UK. 
FOR THAI COMPANIES INTERESTED IN UK 
SMART CITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We can help Thai companies connect to UK companies 
through our network of trade specialists from the 
Technology & Smart Cities Team. 
This includes: 
• Identification of possible business partners 
• Information on UK Technology and Smart Cities 
• Support during visits to the UK 
FOR UK COMPANIES INTERESTED IN THE THAI 
MARKET
DIT has trade specialists who can help you commission 
services from local experts overseas. 
This includes: 
• Country and sector advice 
• Local market research 
• Support during overseas visits 
• Identification of possible business partners 
• Preparation for exhibitions and events 
FOR THAI INVESTORS INTERESTED TO INVEST IN 
THE UK 
DIT will provide you with dedicated, professional 
assistance on locating and expanding your business in 
the UK. 
DIT and our regional partners offer free, confidential 
and tailored support in a number of key areas: 
• Links with centres of excellence (e.g. universities) 
• Information on tax, regulatory and business 
planning issues 
• Information on financial incentives if applicable 
• Information on staff recruitment 
• Site and Property search assistance 
• Building key contacts- we can provide 
introductions to service providers, local, regional 
and national government and trade organisations. 
• Aftercare through on-going support 
• Maximising your global potential- Once you are 
established in the UK, we can help your company 
to take advantage of new business opportunities 
and branch out to new locations – both in the UK 
and overseas. 
For more information, please contact Thailand.dit@
fcdo.gov.uk 
What’s Next? | Smart City Handbook: Thailand
163

What’s Next? | Smart City Handbook: Thailand164
List of Abbreviations
AI Artificial Intelligence
BEIS UK Department of Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy
BIM Building Information Management
BMA Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
BMTA Bangkok Mass Transit Authority
BOI Thailand Board of Investment
BOT Bank of Thailand
BSI British Standards Institute
BTS Bangkok Mass Transit System
CAT CAT Telecom Public Ltd.
CDC City Development Corporation
CEA Creative Economy Agency
CPC Connected Places Catapult
DCT Digital Council of Thailand
DDPM Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation
DEDE Department of Alternative Energy Development & 
Efficiency
depa Digital Economy Promotion Agency
DGA Digital Government Development Agency
DIIF Digital Infrastructure Fund
DIT UK Department of International Trade
DPT Department of Public Works and Town & Country 
Planning
DSP Data Science Platform
DSR Demand side response
DSS Decision support system
EdTech Education technology
EEC Eastern Economic Corridor
EECO Eastern Economic Corridor Office
EGAT Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EPPO Energy Policy and Planning Office
ERC Energy Regulatory Commission
ETDA Electronic Transaction Development Agency
EV Electric vehicle
EVAT Electric Vehicle Association of Thailand
EXAT Expressway Authority of Thailand
FCDO UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
FPO Fiscal Policy Office
GDS UK Government Digital Service
GFCP Global Future Cities Programme
GIS Geographic information systems
ICT Information and communications technology
IDH Integrated data hub
iHIS Integrated health information system
IoT Internet of Things
ITS Intelligent transport system
LRT Light rail transit
MaaS Mobility-as-a-Service
MDES Ministry of Digital Economy and Society
MEA Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MHESI Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research & 
Innovation
MNRE Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
MOC Ministry of Commerce
MOE Ministry of Energy
MOEd Ministry of Education
MOF Ministry of Finance
MOI Ministry of Interior
MOI Ministry of Industry
MOPH Ministry of Public Health
MOT Ministry of Transport
MRTA Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand
MSDHS Ministry of Social Development & Human Security
MWA Metropolitan Waterworks Authority
NBTC National Broadcasting and Telecommunications 
Commission
NESDC National Economic and Social Development Council
NHS UK National Health Service
NIA National Innovation Agency
NRCT National Research Council of Thailand
NSO National Statistical Office
NSTDA National Science and Technology Development Agency
NXPO Office of National Higher Education Science Research 
and Innovation Policy Council
OCSC Office of Civil Service Commission
ODI Open Data Institute (UK)
ONDE Office of the National Digital Economy and Society 
Commission
ONEC Office of the Education Council
ONEP Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy 
Planning
OPDC Office of Public Sector Development Commission
OPEC Office of Private Education Commission
OTP Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning
P2P Peer-to-peer
PCD Pollution Control Department
PDPA Private Data Protection Act
PEA Provincial Electricity Authority
PMCU Property Management of Chulalongkorn University
POC Proof of concept
ROI Return on investment
RTP Royal Thai Police
SaaS Software-as-a-Service
SCI Smart City Index
SDG Sustainable Development Goals
SRT State Railway of Thailand
STS Smart ticketing system
TfL Transport for London
TGBI Thai Green Building Institute
TISI Thai Industrial Standards Institute
TOD Transit-Oriented Development
TODP Transit-Oriented Development Plan
TOT Telecom of Thailand
TSB UK Technology Strategy Board (now Innovate UK)
UGDE Urban Governance Data Ecosystem
UKRI UK Research and Innovation
V2G Vehicle-to-grid
WMA Wastewater Management Authority

Disclaimer
Whereas every effort has been made to ensure that the information in this document is accurate, the British Embassy Bangkok 
and the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office do not accept liability for any errors, omissions or misleading 
statements, and no warranty is given or responsibility accepted as to the standing of any individual, firm, company or other 
organisation mentioned.
© Crown copyright 2020
You may re-use this publication (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open 
Government Licence.
To view this licence visit:
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence or e-mail: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk
Where we have identified any third party copyright information in the material that you wish to use, you will need to obtain 
permission from the copyright holder(s) concerned.
Published October 2020 by Department for International Trade
In partnership
great.gov.uk
