Smart City Primer
Selected ASEAN Experiences
Insights from the 2021 YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop

The United States and Thailand have a long-standing 
friendship and strong government-to-government 
relations. Exchange programs are the cornerstone 
of the educational and cultural ties between the 
two nations.
The Young Southeast Asian Leadership Initiative 
(YSEALI) Smart Cities Regional Workshop provided 
opportunities for young leaders to make an impact 
in their communities through their participation in 
this exchange. The program offered participants 
networking opportunities with other emerging 
leaders, mentorship, hands-on training, and resources 
to address shared economic, environmental, 
educational, and civic participation challenges. In addition, young leaders develop greater 
cross-cultural understanding by traveling to one of the 11 YSEALI nations, including Brunei, 
Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, 
Timor-Leste, and Vietnam.
The YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop engaged young leaders on smart city 
development and design, with the underlying idea that design can be for the purpose of 
enhancing communities’ daily lives – it’s about putting people first. The workshop also 
explored ways to integrate civil society and small and medium-sized businesses in smart 
city development across the region.
To this end, we believe that this primer, which summarizes the ideas compiled through the 
YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop, will continue to raise awareness about smart 
cities and about our participants’ innovative work.
The U.S. Embassy in Bangkok is excited about our collaboration with C asean because it 
developed and expand emerging leaders’ skills and fostered cross-border collaboration 
to address regional and global concerns. We are certain that with the combined efforts of 
all YSEALI members and the commitment of the C asean team, youth across ASEAN 
will continue to demonstrate their potential to bring the region closer and make it stronger. 
We are pleased that this program not only enhances the U.S.-Thai relationship, but the 
U.S.-ASEAN relationship as well.
Lydia Barraza
Cultural Attaché
U.S. Embassy Bangkok

Foreword
ASEAN Smart Cities Network (ASCN) is the regional collaborative platform for ASEAN Member 
States to collaborate, address issues, share best practices, and explore potential solutions 
for smart city. In line with ASEAN’s effort to build a people-oriented and people-centered 
community, ASCN’s primary goal is to improve the quality of life of ASEAN citizens by utilizing 
technology as an enabler to support smart and sustainable urban development. Since its 
establishment in 2018, ASCN Members and external partners have been collaborating to 
develop action plans and implement smart urban development projects throughout the region. 
In 2022, Cambodia has the honor of serving as ASEAN Chair and ASCN Chair. We are 
excited to explore the progress and key achievements, and continue our collective endeavor 
for the lives of ASEAN people by leaving no one behind. To attain this common goal of smart 
cities, we actually require multi-sectoral and multi-stakeholder engagements. This primer is 
among those efforts to introduce the general public to smart city and raise awareness about 
this overarching people-focused issue. 
Established with an aim to strengthen regional conversations, connectivity and collaboration, 
C asean recognizes the power of youth in leading our community towards a sustainable 
future. Since 2015, together with a wide range of programs and partnerships, C asean has 
been firmly committed to fostering young ASEAN talents with emphases on social 
entrepreneurship, sustainability, leadership development, and arts & culture. 
Throughout the years, we are honored for opportunities to collaborate with the U.S. 
Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok on one of their flagship leadership 
development programs, Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI). Our most recent 
collaboration, the 2021 YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop, was a program to invite 
young leaders to learn about smart city concept and develop sustainable solutions to 
urbanization challenges in their respective communities. 
My appreciation is extended to the U.S. Embassy Bangkok and C asean for this initiative. I truly hope that this book, which compiles 
smart city concepts, ideas and practices from public and private sectors as well as our young leaders, will provide a thorough 
understanding of smart cities and inspire all the readers. 
H.E. Ngy Chanphal 
Chair 
ASEAN Smart Cities Network 
In our view, “Smart Cities” are not limited to those metropolises which are equipped with high technology, but should ultimately refer 
to cities that are inclusive and supportive to the wellbeing of all their inhabitants. Based on this approach to “Smart Cities,” this book 
distills key insights from expert lecturers in our Workshop, as well as case studies from ASEAN cities and selected solutions proposed 
by our youth participants. 
We hope you will find inspiration and few thought-provoking ideas from this book! 
Tongjai Thanachanan 
Managing Director 
C asean 

6 C asean 

C asean 1
Table of Contents
Introduction 
Setting the Stage 
 Why Cities 
 Enter Smart(er) Cities 
What is a Smart City? 
 A Smart City is Citizen-Centric 
 Snapshot: ONE BANGKOK 
 A Smart City Incorporates the 4Ps 
 Snapshot: District 2020 in Dubai 
 A Smart City is Powered by Data 
 Snapshot: Smart City Iskandar Malaysia 
Design Thinking as an Approach to Smart Cities 
Innovation from YSEALI Talents 
 Wasterant 
 Zappy 
 E-Wise 
Putting It All Together 
Guidelines for Smart City Development
Resources on Smart Cities 
Acknowledgements 
Contributors
2
4
12
22
26
30
31
34
36
38

2 C asean 
This book is a “primer” or a defining introduction to smart cities. 
The need for a primer arises from the fact that there isn’t a universally accepted definition of 
the term “smart cities,” and this leads to confusion. While some believe the term is apt 
because it conjures up images of how technology and urban life are linked, others believe 
it is only applicable to technologists and professionals. We are living in a very special time 
where half of the world’s population is currently living in an urban environment, resulting in 
opportunities for both innovative success and unforeseen failure. It is therefore necessary for 
us to understand why and how cities can be smarter when catering to their citizens’ quality 
of life. 
The ultimate goal of this primer is to make the general public aware of the importance of 
smart cities. 
This primer starts by exploring why we’re talking about cities and smart cities in the first 
place and why now is the right time to discuss how to make cities more appropriate for how 
we live, learn, work, and play. Then, as we investigate this new concept of “smart cities” 
together, this primer introduces how the smart city trend is being utilized, as well as how it is 
shaped and reshaped by innovation. This primer urges readers to consider problems from 
both the perspective of the general public as well as those professionals who are in the midst 
of solving urban problems. The primer concludes with a discussion of what we can do to 
help with this critical effort, which has far-reaching implications for our lives and livelihood. 
Introduction 

C asean 3
Earth from space. The lit areas indicate cities where the largest portion of humanity’s innovation and challenges are created. 
Photo by NASA on Unsplash 
The content of this primer is based on the 2021 Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative 
(YSEALI) Smart Cities Regional Workshop , a program run by U.S. Embassy Bangkok, 
in partnership with the Foundation for the Institute of Social Enterprise Development 
(FINSEDT) and C asean to encourage meaningful interaction among emerging leaders 
in Southeast Asia. Emerging leaders aged 20-35 from all 10 ASEAN member nations 
and Timor-Leste gathered online to learn about the diverse sectors on which the concept 
of smart city is based, such as environmental design, digitalization, and urban planning. 
Digital solutions-aided smart city development was the theme of 2021 YSEALI Workshop. 
Future leaders discussed both the opportunities and challenges that new technology 
presents in the field of urban development, as well as how to ensure transparency, 
resiliency, privacy, security, sustainability, and interoperability, as well as how to include all 
segments of the population so that no one is left behind. 
These brilliant young individuals teamed up to work on capstone projects with experienced 
mentors, resulting in real projects that resemble the professional “agile startups” currently 
reshaping the global business environment. The knowledge collected, captured, and 
highlighted throughout the Workshop established a firm basis for future thinkers to use in 
order to contribute to the creation of a better urban environment. 
Brief descriptions of winning ideas from participants in the YSEALI Smart Cities Regional 
Workshop are highlighted as part of this primer, along with thought-provoking insights from 
experts sharing their experience and ideas at the Workshop, including a former minister, 
program manager, international coordinator, design thinking specialist, current president of 
a technology university, and senior expert in smart city promotion.
 
The goal of this primer is to provide a concise and clear introduction to smart cities. This 
introduction to smart cities may be your first, but it should not be your last! In fact, the 
success of this primer will depend on the manner in which it encourages and prepares you 
for your journey into the world of smart cities. 
Let’s dive right in.

4 C asean 
Setting the Stage 
Let us start with a small exercise. 
You are about to read a term. After which, imagine whatever that term evokes. Try to remember 
as much detail as possible from whatever picture that pops up in your mind. Close your eyes 
if it helps. 
Are you ready? 
The term is “Smart Cities.” 
Take your time. 
If you are like two-thirds percent of people taking part in this exercise, the image that just 
popped up in your head is probably similar to this:
A skyline of the city of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, whose economy represents a gross domestic product (GDP) of 
US$417.22 billion before the pandemic in 2019. Contrary to popular belief, Dubai does not have an oil-based economy. Only 
in the 1990s did Dubai begin to diversify its economic portfolio, building new cities as seen in this photo. Photo by David 
Rodrigo on Unsplash

C asean 5
Drones may become the future 
of delivery. In the comfort of 
our couch and at the tips of 
our fingers, we have anything 
delivered to us. Many seem 
to think that this is an image 
of a “smart city,” but it is only 
one aspect. Photo by Goh 
Rhy Yan on Unsplash 
Many think that a “smart city” 
is where everyone is hooked 
on their smartphones in 
order to get services. Has 
anyone thought about how 
smart and un-smart we would 
be when those smartphones 
run out of battery? What is the 
risk of this kind of over-reliance? 
Photo by camilo jimenez on 
Unsplash
You are not alone if one of these images has suddenly come into your mind upon hearing 
the term “smart cities.” Indeed, these are images representing what is both in front of and 
behind some of the most awe-inspiring cities in the world, where urbanization is fueled by 
cutting-edge technology, but there is much more to smart cities.
We’ve done this exercise hundreds of times and most of the time the results are exactly 
what we have just described. On the one hand, it is undeniable that the term “smart city” 
conjures up images of high-tech urban environments. On the other hand, these depictions 
make “smart cities” seem very high-tech and perhaps inaccessible and incomprehensible 
to the average person. 
Let’s turn to another picture here:
Some of you might picture something like Dubai or New York City, where high-rises 
dominate the skyline, and highways weave around buildings conveying vehicles at hyper speed.
 
Some of you might see a city where self-flying drones fly through the skies, robots walk the 
streets, and autonomous cars transport people and products wherever they choose to go: 
a metropolis where cutting-edge technology makes hyper-convenience possible. Others 
might imagine a city with a robust communications network that controls key infrastructure 
in the city and makes life more convenient for its residents. 
Some of you might see a high-tech intelligent operation room with numerous screens and 
dashboards displaying what is happening in key public locations in real-time. Perhaps it’s an 
image similar to a scene in a film in which a superhero (say Batman or Iron Man) analyzes the 
complex visual information on the screen to help him figure out how to apprehend a bad guy. 
Some of you might have imagined a city that opts for an all-in-one smartphone app that handles 
everything from payment to ride hailing to restaurant reservations to public transport.

6 C asean 
Aspern Seestadt is consistently ranked among the best places in the world in terms of how 
technology enhances livability. What you see here are not robots, drones, or a lot of high-tech 
equipment; instead, you see regular people having fun. Aspern intends for you to be unable 
to see those technologies. 
In Aspern Seestadt, technology works in the background to provide a sense of security, 
convenience, efficiency, and environmental friendliness to the citizens. The traffic lights use 
real-time traffic data to optimize vehicle movement, getting drivers and riders to their 
destinations faster and safer. Smart energy systems and intelligent buildings work together 
to reduce energy consumption while maximizing physical comfort. The robust waste 
management system is connected end-to-end from the household to the waste-to-energy 
plant to ensure that the streets are clean and pollution is minimized. The consequence of 
these technologies is the residents’ improved livelihood and well-being. 
A true smart city will most likely be similar to Aspern Seestadt, where the key performance 
indicators (KPIs) aren’t the number of skyscrapers, sensors, robots, or drones. Instead, true 
smart city’s KPIs are the lowering number of traffic accidents, shorter commute times, and 
easier access to goods and services, to name a few. These KPIs represent an improved 
quality of life and well-being as a result of the strategic application of behind-the-scenes 
technology. Aspern Seestadt is also a “living laboratory” for smart-home research, a topic 
which we’ll return to later in this primer. 
If you recall the images of awe-inspiring skylines or a city where people are served by robots 
in the previous page, you’ll realize that while those were impressive, they aren’t necessarily 
smart cities - especially if citizens don’t benefit from their presence. Many cities claim to be 
“smart,” but they breed structural inequality among their citizens. Many cities also use 
advanced technology to monitor residents and instead make them feel uneasy rather than 
safe. A true smart city prioritizes the citizens’ livelihood and well-being. Smart cities are 
urban environments that encourage us to stay healthy, succeed in our chosen professions, 
learn new things, and engage in constructive leisure activities. 
With many examples and ideas similar to Aspern Seestadt, we will take you on a ride to 
better understand how to achieve smart cities in this primer. 
Let’s start from the very top.
A photograph of Aspern Seestadt on Smart City Vienna social media page, emphasizing the livelihood of the citizens rather 
than showcasing technological prowess. Photo by Ludwig Schedl, Smart City Wien 

C asean 7
Why Cities? 
Why are cities important? 
You’re probably already living in a city if you’re reading this primer. Why? The short answer 
is that cities are fertile ground and incubators for new ideas. Generally speaking, cities often 
provide a more tolerant atmosphere, freely expressed thoughts, innovative solutions, and 
access to publications containing new ideas. Talent is often drawn to cities because of the 
sense of freedom cities offer, as opposed to non-urban areas where close-knit communities 
may prefer existing values and norms. We can almost certainly expect changes in the way 
we live when talent comes together to exchange ideas in a tolerant space with the right 
technology. 
Although these three Ts – tolerance, talent, and technology, as economist Richard Florida 
calls them, appear to be in a linear progression at first, they are in fact working in symbiosis. 
There can’t be just one or two of the three Ts in a successful city.1
Shanghai, China’s largest city, has a gross domestic product (GDP) of around 5-8% per annum. Like Dubai, Shanghai’s new 
central business district has been built to add economic value to an existing city. Photo by Robynne Hu on Unsplash 
Cities have been the world’s economic engine for the past few decades, accounting for 
nearly 80% of global gross domestic product (GDP) despite their smaller footprint of only 2 
percent of the earth’s surface.2 People are naturally drawn to places where there are plenty 
of employment opportunities and economic activities. Just as those who are born in the late 
1990s might not be able to comprehend a world without the internet, many might presume 
that cities have always been the norm for how we live today. But what if we told you that 
cities weren’t always so important? 
1 Richard Florida, 2004, Cities and the Creative Class (London: Taylor & Francis Group) 
2 “Urban Development,” The World Bank, 20 April 2020, https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/urbandevelopment/

8 C asean 
In fact, human beings only made cities the dominant living environment about a decade 
ago.3 For more than 2 million years prior to that, most humans had been living in non-urban 
areas. Only around 12,000 years ago did we begin to meet and live in groups, establishing 
communities primarily for agriculture. The earliest towns were constructed circa 7500 B.C. 
in a historical region known as Mesopotamia. Since then, group living has been the primary 
driver of global economic and population expansion. Not only did collaboration breed more 
productivity, but it also provided the in-group with the sense of physical and social activities. 
While the magnificent city of Rome had a peak population of one million people during its 
heyday around the beginning of the common era, major cities today easily can contain tens 
of millions (we call them “mega cities”). There are around 8 billion people on the planet now, 
which has more than doubled in just a decade. 
Cities are the norm of modern inhabitation, as they house more than half of the population. 
Cities not only define how people interact with one another, but they also create our 
relationship with the environment and shape our future as a species. But is that a good thing? 
Cities are, in general, more energy efficient than villages and vast towns, but energy is also 
consumed and lost more carelessly. While the compact form of cities aids in the preservation 
of natural ecology, they are also – by some estimates – using 78% of our global energy 
resources, much of which is not always clean or renewable, and producing more than 60 
percent of greenhouse gas emissions.4
Often going hand in hand with this massive energy consumption are environmental 
problems such as air and water pollution, as well as household waste. In an urban environment 
without a clean water supply or robust recycling program, for example, the average citizen 
may need to purchase bottled water whose plastic container will ultimately wind up in a landfill. 
Similarly, a lack of access to farmer’s markets in lower-income areas of a city may lead to the 
purchase of processed food in disposable containers, which affects both the bodily health 
of the citizen as well as the civic infrastructure.
Consumption is urban nature. Urban household waste has always been a problem. With less than 10% recyclable, most 
household waste goes straight to landfills. Some of the substances absorb into underground water and return to us, e.g., 
micro plastic and harmful chemicals. This isn’t how a city — the apex of human civilization — should be, don’t you think? Photo 
by Antoine GIRET on Unsplash
3 “68% of the World Population Projected to Live in Urban Areas by 2050, Says UN,” United Nations, 16 May 2018. https://www.un.org/development/desa/en/news/population
/2018-revision-of-world-urbanization-prospects.html
4 “Generating Power,” United Nations, Date Accessed 1 April 2022, https://www.un.org/en/climatechange/climate-solutions/cities-pollution

C asean 9
Studies show that traffic congestion leads to emotional health effects, such as stress, nervousness, and aggressiveness. 
Long driving hours also lead to physical health effects. such as back pain, leg pain, headaches, and dizziness. This isn’t an 
ideal way to live. Photo by shun idota on Unsplash
And in addition to a citizen’s physical health, cities can pose challenges to their mental and 
emotional state as well. Proximity to people and ideas incubate invention, but fast-paced 
and high-pressure environments can often take a psychological toll. The diversity of a city’s 
population can foster wonderful interactions, but can also require a delicate navigation of 
social and cultural norms. Inequality, too, can be a stressor, with economic, racial, or other 
social disparities existing side-by-side.
According to the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), cities pose 
many paradoxes for our time. As cities are now the norm, addressing development challenges 
with effective interventions can have wide-ranging cumulative impacts.
 
So, by now, you might be wondering if cities are good or bad for people, but that’s not 
the focus of this primer. The reality is that as populations continue to grow, the urban 
environment will only continue to grow with them. With cities expected to house more than 
two-thirds of the world’s population by 2050, the goal of smart cities and this primer is to 
better understand how this increasingly common living environment can best accommodate 
those who will inevitably make it their home.

10 C asean 
Enter Smart(er) Cities 
We began the previous segment asking why cities – with all their pros and cons – will continue 
to be an important part of the human condition. The term “Smart City” has been met with 
skepticism because it often evokes a laundry list of equally sophisticated-sounding 
technological subterms such as “artificial intelligence” (A.I.), “Internet-of-Things” (IoT), “cloud 
computing,” and “blockchain,” just to name a few that will no doubt leave the average 
listener confused and possibly uneasy. 
In fact, many smart cities fail because they focus on the technology rather than the needs 
of the citizens, a key point which we address in this primer. It is important to approach 
technology from the standpoint of the citizen. Smart cities use technology as a means to an 
end – the end being to solve the “pain points” of those living in cities. 
In the previous segment, we touched on how and why innovation and consumption are 
defining characteristics of cities. While innovation and consumption have always been a 
primary characteristic of urbanism, the explosion of cities today can be traced historically 
back to another characteristic: Industrialization.
Historically, there have been four stages to industrialization. The “First Industrial Revolution” 
kicked off in Britain with the mechanization of the textile industry in the mid to late 1700s. 
The use of new energy sources such as electricity, gas, and oil, as well as mass-production 
assembly lines, characterized the “Second Industrial Revolution.” This revolution was 
centered on a new industrial and economic model based on large factories. The “Third 
Industrial Revolution,” also known as the “Digital Revolution,” began in the late 1990s and is 
marked by the widespread use of electronics and computers, as well as the invention of the 
Internet and the discovery of nuclear energy. 
We are now in the era of the “Fourth Industrial Revolution” (also known as “Industry 4.0”), 
which takes advantage of new technology’s limitless potential, including high-speed mobile 
and internet communications, digitalization, big data analytics, automation, and machine 
learning. This “Fourth Industrial Revolution” is an era whereby the boundaries between the 
physical, digital, and biological worlds are blurring, while industries all over the world are 
being uprooted by new technologies and the opportunities they present. 
Products and services have become more efficient as a result of the wide and fast spread 
of Industry 4.0 technologies. For example, it is difficult to envision urban living without the 
at-the-fingertip ease of ride-hailing and e-commerce, which in turn would not be conceivable 
without high-speed mobile technology, a secure digital platform, robust electronic payment, 
automated on-demand delivery, and so on. 

C asean 11
Electrification and mass-production assembly lines were hallmarks of the Second Industrial Revolution. As new 
technological advancements and the development of the combustion engine system ushered in the use of new energy 
sources, everything grew in scale. Photo by Museums Victoria on Unsplash 
The concept of a “smarter city” emerged in the 2000s when information technology (IT) 
companies were actively hunting for a new market for their wares. IBM announced a $50 
million “Smarter Cities Campaign” in 2009 to investigate how the corporation could employ 
sophisticated computer technologies to assist cities in optimizing their operations. Along 
with IBM, many other companies aimed not at a definitively smart city, but a “work-in-progress” 
city that would test which technology could best increase the quality of life and efficiency of 
the urban environment (and with it, create marketing opportunities for themselves).
In fact, many argue that we should have stuck with the term “smarter city” rather than just 
“smart city” since “smarter” implies an ongoing process of improvement, rather than “smart” 
which sounds like an end result. In any case, the term “smart city” stuck, so we’ll roll with it. 
As IT companies increasingly contributed their prowess to the urban landscape, educational 
institutions, too, got into the mix. Home to the world’s most prestigious engineering and 
urban planning schools, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) was in fact an early 
proponent of research and development in smart cities. For instance, MIT’s “Senseable City 
Lab” was one of the first proponents of the use of data-collection sensors to “feel” a city’s 
nervous system in a manner akin to that of human beings. Roads, buildings, public spaces 
could embrace the use of sensors in order to pinpoint areas of the city that required 
attention. In addition, as early as the mid-2000s, MIT students were developing smart 
economy and e-governance systems that used traditional mobile phone short messages 
(SMS) to transfer and receive money and to share crowdsourced data with authorities. 
Anyone with a basic mobile phone (even a flip phone) could send a text message to make a 
financial transaction, locate employment, or communicate with local government authorities 
ranging from accessing public services to disaster warnings, accidents, and emergency 
situations. 
Today, many educational institutions are collaborating with businesses to accelerate 
innovation. Graduates from these institutions go on to work for other companies, while others 
launch their own businesses. As a result, the collaboration between cutting-edge industry 
and higher education produces a workforce and new ideas that help to improve the urban 
environment. 

12 C asean 
What is a Smart City?
Can you show me a smart city? 
This is one of the most often asked questions among smart city practitioners. When asked, 
the smart city historian Anthony M. Townsend puts it: 
5 Anthony M. Townsend, 2013, Smart Cities: Big Data, Civic Hackers, and the Quest for a New Utopia (New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company), 320.
My answer is always the same. “The one you live in.” It sounds 
glib, but I’m serious. The idea of a single, utopian design for the 
smart city has kept us from the hard work of building a rich and 
varied collection of ones that we can actually live with.5
What he’s implying is quite brilliant. People, as we’ve seen previously, are the most 
important component of smart cities. If you already live in one, the city you live in is smart in 
some way as well. The other components, such as technology or operations management, 
are secondary. 
Although the term “smart city” is quite popular, there has yet to be a universally accepted 
definition. Many people assume that “smart” implies “technology” or “optimization.” 
However, we’ve learned quite a bit from the failures of many “smart city hopefuls” that 
technology isn’t the place to start.

C asean 13
Many “micro mobility” services want to make cities flow better for everyone. With a strong focus on how technology 
(hardware + software) can enhance efficiency and livelihood. For instance, the micro mobility startup Beam works with cities 
and communities to deliver the world’s safest and most comfortable ride to connect the mobility infrastructure with last-mile 
mobility. Photo: Beam
To have a common understanding, let’s say that we need a definition. We think that it would 
be useful to start from the top – that “smart city” is a process rather than an end result 
(remember that we discussed earlier how “smarter” is probably a better adjective than “smart”). 
A working definition of a smart city that incorporates essential ideas from popular definitions 
would look like this: 
1. Step 1 – Bird’s Eye View: What does it mean for a city to be smart? A smart 
city is a process (not an outcome) for how a city makes use of appropriate 
technology to enhance the wellbeing of its citizens. 
2. Step 2 – Framework of Implementation: How can the city best serve its 
citizens? A smart city focuses on the effective integrations of physical and digital 
systems to increase its capacity, managerial efficiency and resource utilization.
 
3. Step 3 – Operational Sustainability: How do we make smart city operation 
sustainable, especially when the benefits of digital technology are not as easily 
seen as other physical improvements like roads or bridges? Smart cities, after all, 
make the most optimal use of available interconnected information that enables 
the scalability of the products and services to solve common urban problems. 
Smart cities, therefore, are urban areas that are developing and evolving to become smarter 
through the use of purposeful and appropriate technology. Vienna (i.e., Aspern Seestadt), 
Singapore, and Amsterdam, for example, have all been scored relatively high in numerous 
smart city rankings as a result of their ongoing efforts to come up with innovative solutions 
to existing problems. 
Although the smart city trend is quite new, many cities around the world have experimented 
with creating them. Based on how some succeeded and failed, there are principles that 
have proven to be effective. 
Smart cities prioritize the following concepts: Citizen-Centricity, Technology in the Background, 
People-Public-Private-Partnership (4Ps), and Data-Driven Decision Making.

14 C asean 
A Smart City is 
Citizen-Centric 
Six common mistakes made by cities that want to be “smart.” All of these can be boiled down to one issue: a mismatch 
between the top-down and the bottom-up; in other words, the grand vision from the top doesn’t fit with the needs of the 
citizens who would be living in them. Photo credit: Eden Strategy Institute 
6 Calvin Chu, “Ranked to Grow: Impact of Smart City Ranking” (Presentation, 2019 ASEAN Smart Cities Network (ASCN) Annual Meeting in Bangkok, Thailand, 24 August 2019); 2019 ASCN 
Summary can be downloaded from https://asean.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/ASCN2019-Report.pdf
“A Citizen-Centric Approach to Smart Cities” means that the key performance indicators 
(KPIs) of a city should always be its people’s well-being, not the features and benefit sets that 
technology vendors tend to market. 
Calvin Chu, a smart city expert from the global consulting firm Eden Strategy Institute, 
summarizes several reasons many smart city initiatives fail.6 
The most common reason for many smart city failures is that technology has taken 
precedence over people. It may be tempting to use the most up-to-date technology available, 
but this may not be effective if there is no real need for it. Furthermore, assuming that people 
will accept new technology and adapt their lifestyles and behaviors to align with the technology 
can erode trust in the role and intentions of the implementer – in most cases, the local 
government – and incur opportunity costs.
A typical example of this could be when a city relies too heavily on a mobile app to access 
various services. While mobile apps can be extremely helpful, they can also be susceptible 
to rushed launches, confusing interfaces, glitches, management issues, high traffic, and a 
host of other problems that will ultimately leave citizens feeling frustrated and underserved. 
In such aggregator apps, a single point of failure will disrupt a wide range of city services.
Smart city projects also fail when city planners pay insufficient attention to operating and 
business models. It’s usually the business and operating model, not the product or service, 
that makes a new product or service revolutionary. The magic lies in the business model, 
as seen in how Spotify and Apple Music revolutionized how we enjoy music. Listeners no 
longer purchase a CD to “own” a collection of songs so they can enjoy the music. Instead, 
they “subscribe” to a service that allows them to listen to any song they want, whenever they 
want, without having to own it. 

C asean 15
This shift from owning to subscribing is clever because appreciating intangible forms of 
entertainment like music and movies has never been about “owning” in the first place. Some 
cities have attempted to implement similar Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS) models for services 
such as bicycles and electric scooters. We don’t need to own them as long as we can use 
them when we need them, just like we don’t need to own music. In fact, not owning a single 
bike allows users flexibility should they choose different modalities on a single commute, or 
different commutes to and from a destination.
Several companies saw an opportunity in this market and brought in a bicycle-sharing 
program that promised to simultaneously solve urban mobility and health issues. 
However, fueled carelessly by venture funds, they did not invest in attractive marketing or 
loyalty programs but focused instead on dominating “distribution channels” by outspending 
each other to place more bicycle units on the streets. Rather than developing sustainable 
business models, they lowered the price per use to untenable levels, in hopes of winning 
market share. These companies ended up being perceived as “dumping” large numbers of 
bicycles on the streets, resulting in oversupply, causing eyesores, and creating obstacles 
to pedestrians when the bikes were strewn about messily. Their operating models did not 
include adequate monitoring and penalties for improperly parked or damaged bicycles, and 
the disarray devalued their utility and ultimately also saw the abuse. The entire program 
was discontinued within months, creating tremendous shareholder, environmental, and 
reputational damage that could have easily been avoided with more forethought.
Problems arise in the blurry lines between the right to ride and public safety. In this case, 
an operation like this could have started with a “sandbox” or confined testing environment, 
which would have allowed service providers to gauge in stages if the service is in fact 
operable, scalable, or if it could present any problems. Challenges can then be identified and 
dealt with early on before they become too widespread.
Finally, a lack of transparency in the public-participation plan can be a problem. The most 
well-known example of this is Sidewalk Labs’ decision to halt the construction of a smart 
city on a 12-acre plot of land in Quayside, Toronto. Mass housing, heated and illuminated 
sidewalks, public Wi-Fi, and a slew of cameras and other sensors to monitor traffic and 
street life were planned for this ambitious US$1.3 billion project. The company envisioned 
this network of sensors collecting data on energy use and citizen behavior, which could 
then be used to automate public infrastructure and improve citizens’ well-being. Residents, 
however, criticized the company’s approach to privacy and intellectual property, questioning 
how much of their private information was compromised. While this vision initially seems 
revolutionary and transformative, the lack of trust between the residents and the company 
ultimately led to the program’s failure. 
All of these examples lead to one important point: smart cities deploy appropriate technology, 
such as automation and Internet-of-Things (IoT) sensors, so that citizens may benefit from 
increased wellbeing, such as having more time to spend with their families as automation 
takes care of more tedious tasks. Citizens in a mobility-focused smart city, for example, may 
be able to arrive home sooner and in a healthier state, because traffic lights operate 
seamlessly to reduce congestion, prevent accidents, and reduce air pollution. Citizen-Centric 
“technology in the background” could therefore look at the increased number of hours these 
citizens get to spend with their families as a potential performance metric. 

16 C asean 
Snapshot: ONE BANGKOK 
ONE BANGKOK is the premier mixed-use district in the heart of the city, consisting of five 
hotels, five office towers, three residential towers and four retail precincts. Combined with 
large green outdoor areas, the district brings a fully integrated community environment to 
the center of Bangkok. 
 
Thailand’s largest fully integrated district is the 120-billion-baht fully-integrated district and the largest private sector 
property development in Thailand’s history. It’s hoped to be the “model smart city” of the world. Photo by ONE BANGKOK
The design of ONE BANGKOK implements lessons learned from the architecture and urbanism 
of Old Bangkok, yielding an improved and timeless urban form that is meant to address 
environmental, social, and cultural concerns of both the present and future. Along with 
its plazas, parks and open spaces, the character and distinctly lush greenery of ONE 
BANGKOK’s public realm continues vertically up into the towers within the district. Amenity 
spaces, terraces and sky gardens will create a unique identity, connect occupants with 
nature and improve the quality of life for workers, residents, hotel guests and visitors. 
The density of ONE BANGKOK, paired with the thoughtful execution and striking 
composition of its vertical amenities, make it a prominent and lasting addition to 
Bangkok’s skyline. The signature tower, with a crown touching the sky, will look over the 
whole district, Lumpini Park, and other areas of the city. 
Core Values 
People-Centric: Inspired by the city’s rich culture and history, ONE BANGKOK will 
be integrated, accessible and inclusive. An exemplary center promoting new forms of 
public participation, ONE BANGKOK is set to become a dynamic reflection of the city’s 
bright and bold future; 
Sustainability: Almost half of ONE BANGKOK is dedicated to green or open space. 
With towers built to LEED Platinum (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) 
and WELL (building standards backed by the latest scientific research) Standards, the 
development sets new benchmarks for sustainability in Bangkok, aiming to become 
the first LEED-Neighborhood Development (LEED-ND) development in Thailand. 
These sustainability efforts create a circular society that understands the impact of 
climate change on the environment and the evolving demographics of society. Smart 
technology and sustainable practices allow people to enjoy the environment, clean air, 
clean water and improved living conditions; appreciating what the world has to offer 
today while also preparing a better environment for future generations. The goal is to 
lessen the impact of climate change by reducing its carbon footprint and minimizing 
CO2 emissions; and, 
Smart City Living: ONE BANGKOK integrates smart technologies throughout the 
district, pioneering efforts in cyber-security and facilitating the way people work, live, 
and play. Smart city innovations in parking and traffic management, as well as 
centralized utilities, security and safety, enhance the visitor and resident experience. 
●
●
●

C asean 17
To speed up the process, it is critical to combine the “superpowers” of the people, public, 
and private sectors under the People-Public-Private-Partnership model (or the 4Ps model). 
The commonly used term is “Public-Private-Partnership” (or PPP), but we have decided to 
include the “P for the People” in the equation because many recent examples of success, as 
well as failure, of smart city projects around the world have demonstrated the critical need to 
communicate with the people, thus galvanizing their support in the process. Because most 
smart city solutions are novel solutions to open-ended challenges, their economic models 
must be redesigned as well. We have recently witnessed the emergence of the so-called 
“sharing economy” for vehicles, office spaces, equipment, services, and even homes. 
Smart city investments take many forms, depending on the type of project. Municipalities, for 
example, frequently invest entirely in projects that are primarily concerned with the public’s 
interests and are less concerned with profit-making. On the other hand, the private sector 
would prioritize investing in profit-driven projects. Ultimately, the “4Ps Model” is the third 
most well-known type of investment. The 4Ps Model is a collaboration between the private 
and public sectors in order to serve the needs of the people, reinforcing each sector’s 
comparative advantage. 
The public sector, in particular, would have greater clout on policy issues and legal 
proceedings. Despite its status as a central authority, the public sector frequently faces 
budget constraints, a lack of expertise in various fields, and a lack of incentives to develop 
a sustainable business. At the same time, despite having greater capabilities in terms of 
technology, digital literacy, innovation, and marketing, the private sector frequently 
encounters administrative bottlenecks from the government. As a result, the 4Ps Model is a 
perfect marriage of each sector’s comparative advantage. 
The 4Ps Model has been proven to deliver tremendous success around the world, 
A well-known example is a free high-speed wifi service. The private sector’s expertise in 
delivering this service could help the public sector to provide broadband wifi to the citizens 
to increase their engagement with the digital economy as well as provide safety. Often the 
case is the local government’s lack of funding to implement such a project at an effective 
scale; hence, the 4Ps Model comes into play in a form of the local government’s allowing the 
private company to provide such service at no cost to the citizens. 
The private implementing system integrator, instead, makes up for their investment in the 
service via advertisements. In this case, everyone wins. Often, this service can be extended 
to the domain of a “smart pole” whereby not only the high-speed wireless internet 
connectivity is provided, but also other utilities such as air quality monitoring sensors, 
closed-circuit cameras, electricity chargers, and so on. As the local government allows the 
private system integrator to install these smart pools on the sidewalks and public spaces, 
services can be provided whose cost is off-set by the revenue collected from advertisement, 
limited use to citizens’ consensual data, and the real estate on the smart polls for various 
services. The local government can also help the project by enacting a taxation policy 
enabling experimentation while also lowering production costs.
A Smart City 
Incorporates the 4Ps 

18 C asean 
Some of the Expo’s most inspiring architecture will anchor the new District 2020 community. Photo: https:// 
virtualexpodubai.com/sustainability-district/district-2020 
Unlike previous Expos where pavilions and most buildings were erected only for the 
duration of the proceedings, Expo 2020 plans to keep at least two-thirds of the buildings 
to use after the event. The site of Expo 2020 will be transformed into “District 2020,” a 
world-class innovation hub for startups and worldwide players in advanced technology. 
Several influential corporations such as Siemens, Terminus, and DP World have already 
agreed to be long-term tenants of District 2020. With an ambitious objective and strong 
advantages like tax and rent-free business setup, it is easy to see how the project will 
attract the “best and brightest” of the global startups. Expo 2020 Dubai cooperated with 
world-class technology companies to design cutting-edge infrastructure that will easily 
transition to use in research and development for digital innovation.
A dashboard showing the ‘digital twin’ of the Expo 2020 (and soon to be District 2020) site whereby the industrial 
internet-of-things platform collects data from sensors located across the site to maintain every aspect of the operation 
e.g., energy, water supply, electricity, traffic, and incidents. Photo credit: Siemens
Snapshot: District 2020 
Every five years, nations gather in one location for a special six-month event called the 
“World Expo.” The host city invites these nations to build “pavilions” — physical structures 
that house exhibitions showcasing their unique selling points. This year’s Expo took place 
at the city of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Though the global pandemic 
pushed the event back a year to 2021, organizers stuck to its original name, “Expo 2020 
Dubai.” It represents the first time that the Middle East, Africa, and South Asia held a major 
event of this scale.

C asean 19
From the ground up, global technology company Siemens helped design a site that will 
last beyond the Expo itself. The 4.6 square kilometer site has thousands of Internet of 
Things (IoT) sensors that connect buildings, machines and facilities. Through the 
company’s industrial IoT-as-a-service solution, the site is a smart city whose infrastructure 
is digitally managed, optimized and automated. The IoT-as-a-service solution runs in the 
background, but everyone who visits Expo and ultimately lives in District 2020 will benefit 
from its operation. 
In addition to the optimization of the operations, the solution will also reduce carbon 
emissions, conserve water and energy and enhance comfort and security. For instance, 
optimized decisions are automated by the system using data collected and stored in 
the cloud to increase energy efficiency in buildings and water usage. This is especially 
important in the Middle East, where buildings can consume up to 80% of the energy 
supply. In other words, District 2020 is a model “smart city” for innovation where 
technology works in the background and the KPIs of the cities are the wellbeing and 
quality of life of the citizens. 
For more information: https://www.district2020.ae/ 
A Smart City is 
Powered by Data 
When Harvard Professor of Psychology Steven Pinker was asked what is “the one thing 
that is wrong” with the world that he would change, he didn’t think twice before pointing 
to the fact that “we humans are not perfect” and are therefore prone to surrender to the 
cognitive bias of assessing the world through anecdotes and images rather than data and 
facts. In other words, we tend to take “anecdotes as data,” and that which can’t be good.7
Cities are fundamentally physical environments. We have discussed how technology must 
work in the background to enable a better urban environment for the citizens. To do so, this 
in-the-background technology needs data as a fuel. Whether that be an automated traffic 
light or energy efficient algorithms, data is key. In the past when data was not easily 
collected, we leveraged our beliefs, biases, and familiarity to make decisions. That’s the 
best we could do. Today we are living in an era where we have the technology to collect 
data in a fast, accurate and comprehensive way. 
What we expect from technology is to use that data to make decisions better than we 
humans can do. The use of digital technology connects data in order to benefit those living 
in physical space. Many cities are developing their digital infrastructure to seamlessly work 
with the physical one. 
This intermediary “smart city platform” layer, which permits interactions between new 
technologies and the physical environment, plays a key role in the smart city. An apt 
metaphor of this smart city platform is a marketplace. A marketplace is created for the 
demand to find the supply and vice versa. In this analogy, the demand is the need for smart 
city services, while the supply is the services to be provided to the citizens. The smart city 
platform is where the demand for and supply of data meets. In this sense, the job of this 
“platform” or marketplace is to establish a data integration standard, allowing any services 
to be easily “plugged and played” to serve the city. For instance, a delivery service that has 
access to the traffic data can better service their customers. Cities, too, that know exactly 
where the needs of the citizens are can provide those services quickly and effectively. 
7 “One Thing to Change: Anecdotes Dren’t Data,” Harvard Gazette. 21 June 2019, https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2019/06/focal-point-harvard-professor-steven-pinker-says-the-truth-lies-in-the-data/

20 C asean 
Making data open securely is an urban innovation in itself. Innovators profit from the open 
data made available by this platform, allowing them to create new goods and services. In 
contrast to the time it takes to develop a new building or city, we can establish a digital 
service from the ground up in a matter of days or weeks, allowing people to reap the biggest 
benefits from digital technology in the shortest amount of time. In the UK, for instance, the 
government open data program publishes data to help better policy-making and continuous 
improvement of services. Since the launch in 2018, open data has reduced massive amounts 
of waste, created countless innovations and enhanced public services to the citizens. 
It only makes sense to be protective of data, for it is gold in today’s Industry 4.0 era. Even 
though users benefit from apps that collect their data, they are also increasingly aware of 
their rights, and of the value of their data. No one would like to see their personal data 
being abused, and no measure of benefits would compensate for severe data breaches and 
cybersecurity attacks. Successful smart cities projects not only openly communicate these 
concerns with the citizens, but pay close attention to addressing issues of personal data 
protection and cybersecurity. For instance, the European Union’s General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) restricts the use of facial recognition in smart cities. Data collection needs 
to be limited to essential services. High standards of data collection need to be established, 
and citizens are asked to give meaningful consent to processing of personal data and analysis. 
The layer-structure of smart city infrastructure, data, and service. Illustration: Korea Agency for Infrastructure Technology 
Advancement (KAIA) 

C asean 21
Snapshot: 
Smart City Iskandar Malaysia 
Iskandar’s smart city program began in 2012 when the city was chosen as a pilot smart 
city in Malaysia alongside four other significant cities. This effort is based on the Iskandar 
Malaysia Development Framework which aims to improve the quality of life in Malaysia’s 
first economic corridor. By transforming Iskandar into “A Strong and Sustainable Metropolis 
of International Standing,” Iskandar Malaysia Smart City presents a ‘policy-to-practicality’ 
(P2P) framework with a range of short, medium, and long-term co-development goals with 
the citizens who are both the beneficiaries and drivers of the smart and sustainable city.
In line with the notion outlined in this Primer, Iskandar Malaysia Smart City Framework 
pragmatically places citizens at the core of smart city as a techno-social problem-solving 
instrument. Through the use of data, purposeful digital technology works in the 
background to create new services and solve existing problems. Prioritization tasks boost 
the capacity of existing physical infrastructure and service fleets, freeing up resources 
for more demanding jobs. Solutions include the use of drone and close-circuit cameras 
(CCTV) for surveillance and enforcement, traffic management, as well as smart bins, and 
IoT-powered streetscape.
For example, Iskandar digital-led Community Crisis Preparedness Program makes extensive 
use of the integrated data system pertaining to flood warning and water level monitoring to 
identify sites and times when preventative and evacuation protocols should be in place. 
Integrated with the river monitoring and management tools, Iskandar’s Urban Observatory 
System serves as a central data platform for collaboration to solve issues in this flood-prone 
area. Iskandar is creating a “digital twin” with data that will enable city management units to 
see the capacity of water infrastructure in the case of flooding, leading to better preparedness.
Iskandar’s IM Journey Planner is an another important project, which makes public 
transportation more comprehensive, convenient, and inexpensive. The IM Journey Planner 
connects commuters with service providers from the first to the last mile, leveraging data 
collection and big data analytics as a “game changer” for urban transportation. Key traffic 
infrastructure, such as the smart traffic signal system, is being created concurrently with 
the development of big data analytics for the IM Journey Planner. The success is based 
on the continued development of both services and infrastructure.
Photo credit: Iskandar Regional Development Authority

22 C asean 
Design Thinking 
as an Approach 
to Smart Cities
Over the past decades, “design thinking” has dominated the field of innovation. Experts 
argue that what makes design thinking special and unique as a method to derive innovative 
ideas is its focus on the users. 
One might think, where else would you focus if not the customers? You would be surprised 
to know that just a few decades ago, designers used to prioritize functionality over 
user-friendliness. 
The “design thinking turn” took place in the 1980s when designers began to embrace a 
multi-disciplinary approach to innovation. For example, a mechanical engineer who knew 
about psychology could design a machine that was both functional and viscerally attractive. 
Even better, a mechanical engineer who knew about psychology and business could come 
up with a product complete with a business model for bringing that product to the masses. 
So, let’s dive in – what exactly is design thinking? 
We have touched roughly on how design thinking is user-centric, but how so? 
At the highest level, design thinking is a structured problem-solving process. Unlike the 
previous era where functions were the focus, design thinking’s process doesn’t start with 
what the designers want. Instead, it focuses on understanding the needs of the users, 
creating solutions by leveraging knowledge from many fields, and constantly testing those 
solutions. 
At Stanford University, home to the “D-School” where design thinking is heavily incubated, 
design thinking is thought of as a process whereby designers continue to learn and improve 
upon initial ideas consisting of several stages: 

C asean 23
Empathizing: Designers assume the role of an anthropologist who religiously 
observes potential users and works with them to fully understand their experience 
of the problem. These problems – or “pain points” – initially appear unsolvable to 
the user, consequently being treated as a given issue to work around. Designers 
do not get ahead of themselves and jump to the conclusion as if they know what 
to design. They accept that they don’t know and therefore use observation and 
interaction with the user in order to understand the problems from the user’s 
perspective. 
Defining: Once understood from the perspective of the users, designers work 
through the outputs of the empathizing stage to form a user’s point of view that 
will be addressed in the solution design. Designers may make a list of pain points 
they extracted from the previous stage, and then reorganize and prioritize them 
in the most methodological way possible. 
Ideating: Designers usually gather up all their friends specializing in a variety 
of fields to explore lots and lots of ideas and generate a wide range of possible 
solutions. 
Prototyping: Designers have learned from previous-generations that it is risky 
to take an idea directly into production without first creating a prototype. Designers 
work with the so-called “rapid prototypes” to test their ideas with the users. 
Through low fidelity, rapid prototypes, designers can learn a great deal about a 
product’s practicality, efficacy, and ease of use. They will then take this information 
to create a simple version of the product to test in the market. 
Testing: This testing phase requires designers to put their prototypes to the 
test with real users. The most crucial part of this stage is not to expect success 
outright, but to receive feedback in order to reconsider. This feedback will enable 
designers to improve the solution and test again. Many interesting products and 
services fail not because of any fault of their own, but rather because they were 
rushed to the market. As they say in Silicon Valley, it’s better to fail fast and fail 
forward! 
1. 
2.
3.
4. 
5. 

24 C asean 
A cartoon illustrating the importance of design thinking. Photo: https://vk.com/piterskii_punk_wall
When following the above stages, it’s important to keep the following two points in mind.
First, these five stages have to be followed in a consecutive order. For example, if you skip 
from empathizing to ideating without defining your problem, you may find yourself ideating 
on the wrong pain points, wasting valuable time and resources in the process. The most 
calamitous outcomes are often the result of a designer skipping the fourth and fifth stages 
(prototyping and testing) and going right to manufacturing for the market. There are numerous 
examples of these failures and major companies and cities are not immune to this type of 
failures. 
Second, these five stages do not necessarily run in a straight-line progression. Many designers 
may have to go back and forth between steps based on the continuous discoveries they 
make along the way. For example, the testing stage may yield new information that could 
send a designer back to ideating in order to prototype a better solution. 
There is a comic strip that summarizes all the key points of design thinking. Why are these 
parents cherishing a mobile sculpture that their toddler doesn’t benefit from the way the 
parents do? 

C asean 25
Parents who follow the five steps will purchase a mobile that benefits the toddler. Citizens, 
like toddlers, may not always have a channel through which to connect with city’s authorities. 
While it’s natural for city officials to believe that they “know what’s best for the citizens,” this 
approach runs the risk of completely missing the point as these parents in the comic strip 
did. It’s always useful to begin with empathizing with the position from which the toddler is 
experiencing the mobile. 
Design thinking is a useful approach for cities to come up with a solution that works. In the 
last two stages of design thinking, cities need to create a “sandbox” to test the solutions. 
Vienna’s Aspern Seestadt positions itself as a “living lab” where new products and services 
can be tested on real people in a true urban environment. As one of the largest and 
most technologically advanced urban developments in Europe, over 100 researchers from a 
range of different fields use vast quantities of real-time data from Aspern Seestadt to analyze 
interactions and between the behavior of the residents and building technology especially in 
energy-efficient buildings and cities. 
Conducting applied research at the Aspern Seestadt urban development area since 2013 
is Aspern Smart City Research (ASCR), which is a research consortium among partners in 
both the public and private sectors namely Siemens Österreich, Wien Energie, Wiener Netze 
and the City of Vienna (Vienna Business Agency and Wien 3420). The “living lab” concept 
has increasingly received recognition as the most efficient way of testing new technologies, 
which Aspern Seestadt isn’t shy of trying out in order to derive the most livable outcomes 
for the residents.

26 C asean 
Innovation from 
YSEALI Talents
The 2021 Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI) Smart Cities Regional Workshop is a program 
funded by the U.S. Department of State, organized by the U.S. Embassy Bangkok, in partnership with 
the Foundation for the Institute of Social Enterprise Development (FINSEDT) and C asean, to encourage 
meaningful interaction among emerging leaders in Southeast Asia. With “Digital Solutions-Aided Smart City 
Development” as the theme for the workshop, 20-35 future leaders from all ten ASEAN member nations 
and Timor-Leste teamed up with experienced mentors to discuss both the opportunities and challenges 
that new technology presents to urban development. Participants also generated and presented projects 
in the form of professional “agile startups” that proposed potential solutions to very real issues. Although 
the Workshop has concluded, the projects are continuing in various stages of implementation. Below are 
three winners’ project summaries, as well as comments from the expert panel reviewing the projects.

C asean 27
Wasterant
Cities consume, but this does not have to be a bad thing. 
Wasterant is a digital platform that automates the sorting of food 
waste into regions where it may be repurposed, is based on 
circular economy concepts. All types of waste are included: food 
scraps, kitchen garbage, and biodegradable waste; commercial 
waste, such as plastics, cardboard, paper, and glass; building 
and demolition waste, such as scrap metal, surplus wood, and 
rubble; clothing and fabrics; and electronic waste. The idea is to 
breathe new life into these items. The key to this solution’s success 
is awareness. Through a constant informational effort, this project 
reinforces local knowledge of reusable materials.
Next Steps:
Wasterant is an online platform for waste management 
providing business solution to transform almost all types of 
wastes to be tradable for reuse. 
Through raising awareness on garbage sorting and upcycling 
the sorted waste, the trash will be reused as raw materials 
to create new products, thus reduce the operation costs 
and generate lower environmental impact because less 
virgin materials will be extracted to create new products 
and less waste will be ended up in the landfill or incinerator. 
However, collaboration among stakeholders, including 
Producers (Shops, Restaurants, Offices, Hotels, Homes, 
Processors, Gardeners/Farmers, Municipal Services, local 
government, activists etc.), as well as data transparency, 
and a balance between waste producers and the 
processors of the wastes are critical to the success of this 
initiative. The program will not only bring economic benefit 
to the local government in term of lower waste collection rate 
but also provide additional income to garbage sorter plus job 
opportunities to local communities. 
Location: Minglanilla, Cebu, Philippines 
YSEALI Alumni:
Angelica Añabeza 
Ilman Hanifa Yunardi 
Jean Sonia P Langi 
SORTING
WASTE
When segregated properly, waste has 
plenty of potential for reuse. We aim to 
target businesses as the main users of the 
app, encouraging them to sort their waste 
for an additional source of revenue stream.
PICK UP AND
DELIVERY
Once transactions are made, the app 
will facilitate pick up and delivery through 
ride-hailing services. This optimizes waste 
collection to your specific needs, making it 
highly flexible and convenient.
ONLINE
COMMERCE
The app acts as an online marketplace for 
all prospective consumers and suppliers. 
We hope to offer a huge variety of wastes 
which can all be traded for reuse.
UPCYCLING
Once the waste is received by the buyer, 
it can now be reused through upcycling 
into new materials and goods. This in turn 
reduces overall costs as it’s cheaper than 
sourcing them newly made.

28 C asean 
Zappy 
Zappy essentially functions as a “Tripadvisor” for public transport. It is a public 
transportation feedback company that gives travelers peace of mind by providing 
information through a web app. Transit operators can use the analytics platform to 
visualize data-driven mobility insights that can be used to improve their services and 
provide a better customer experience. By combining data expertise and domain 
knowledge in public transportation, we hope to improve the urban transit 
experience with the web application www.zappytrip.com. The finalized user journey 
for Zappy is as follows: 1) The route can be chosen by the user (From location A to 
location B); 2) Users can choose from a variety of public transportation options (bus, 
train) and see the feedback and ratings for the chosen route and public transportation 
which the users themselves can provide; and 3) the user can see a carbon footprint 
calculator. All of this makes Zappy a unique experience for commuting.
Next Steps:
In brief, Zappy is an “Integrated Public Transportation System” 
solution via a web application (www.zappytrip.com), that shows 
choices of routes with different modes of transportation 
(bus and train). Features like the “Journey Planner,” the 
“Feedback System” and “Carbon Footprint Calculator” make 
this solution interesting that they create new experience for 
the customers and are useful for the government since the 
feedback on public transportation can be used to improve 
terms of reference or conditions in the subsequent concession 
tender. 
Therefore, public private partnership is critical to the success 
of this initiative since the collaboration will allow the growing 
numbers of riders to get synchronized and analyzed data, 
e.g., bus & train locations (through GPS tags), traffic 
information, etc. in real time of City Data Platform. 
It is hoped that Zappy can improve urban transit experience 
for customers by coming up with new practical features 
including one single page feature for all actions from 
searching and comparing routes to payment.
Location: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
YSEALI Alumni:
Arden Linh Nguyen 
Danesya Ananda Rahmat 
Hoh Jia Da 
Krister Roquel 
Namtip Pornchokchai 
Sackdavong Mangkhaseum 

C asean 29
E-Wise 
E-wise is an e-waste recycling initiative aimed at encouraging citizens to adopt a 
green lifestyle through correct e-waste recycling practices. We’re working on an 
online application as an innovative solution to help end-users, merchants, and 
manufacturers recycle e-waste and close the loop on electrical and electronic trash. 
Our business strategy entails a variety of functions, with our web program serving as 
the backbone for tracking e-waste recycling operations. When consumers need to 
dispose of e-waste, an app is available at their fingertips that allows them to find the 
closest convenient collection sites, such as electronics and mobile phone retail 
establishments. E-waste will then be transferred to authorized recycling locations. 
With E-wise, users can track their waste or volunteer to be a shipper, collecting up 
other people’s e-waste in exchange for a promotional voucher for their social contribution. 
E-wise is a scalable approach that aids producers in fulfilling their extended producer 
obligations (EPRs) and society in taking joint environmental.
Next Steps:
E-Wise is an Integrated Mobile Application designed to 
become a reliable digital platform for Electronic Waste 
(e-waste) collecting activities (segregation, collection, and 
treatment activities). Users can search for nearby drop-off 
points, or possibly schedule a professional pick-up at home. 
The benefits for both end users are clear and obvious, but 
additional incentives like coupons and rewards programs 
could be incorporated as the platform develops. 
Collaboration between stakeholders and efficient logistics 
are the key enablers because their contributions will allow 
cost minimization for recycling process for manufacturer, 
daily e-waste storage for retailers, and convenient stores. 
Since daily usage and amount of e-waste in unpredictable, 
thus a take-back program of manufacturers might be initiated 
as a subsidy from manufacturers who wish to reduce carbon 
emissions in their products’ life cycle. Most importantly, 
personal data protection should be strictly implemented 
throughout the process. 
 
Location: Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
YSEALI Alumni:
Brenda Nathania Passandaran 
Mohammad Wahyu 
SiddArtha Valle 
Thanakorn Thanasujaree 
Vo Hong Phung 

30 C asean 
Putting It All Together
8 Jennifer Clark, “What Cities Need Now,” MIT Technology Review, 28 April 2021, https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/04/28/1023104/smart-cities-urban-technology-pandemic-covid/ 
Realizing that the future will demand three things. First, creators of smart city 
technology must draw on specialized knowledge of the local context. Second, 
we need a framework for data governance: agreements on how data is collected, 
shared, and used. And finally, public participation is essential. Simply put, the way 
forward is to respond to the needs of the community, not the motives of industry.8 – 
Dr. Jennifer Clark, Professor of City and Regional Planning at Ohio State University 
First, it is the people, not the technology, that are at the heart of a smart city. This is an 
extremely important point that cannot be overstressed. Most, if not all, failures are caused 
by a mismatch between user demand and available technology vendors. Tech corporations 
may desire to impose on citizens, whether or not they are relevant or acceptable to the setting. 
Second, we must focus on value rather than optimization. Many organizations can be 
understandably preoccupied with optimization, however over-optimizing can lead to cheap 
products and services with no value to the end user. 
Third, there is a genuine need to facilitate the discourse among all important players in the 
smart city, including private entrepreneurs and potential investors with the technology and 
business model to drive smart cities; all of them should be present at the same time. 
Fourth, we need more open data for all citizens, which has been proven to promote 
confidence and transparency among beneficiaries and the government, as well as to spark 
innovation that could lead to robust solutions in the future. 
Fifth, because leadership drives the process, we want to collaborate with cities that have 
effective governance through visionary and practical leadership. This does not always mean 
strong leadership but rather “empathetic leadership” capable of inspiring everyone at the 
table to fulfill their greatest potential. 
It is hoped that this little primer has convinced you that all of us have a meaningful responsibility 
not only to the environment we all share, but also to the people for whom our designs are meant. 
Because of economical and effective technologies, we can now accomplish far more with less 
time, resources, and effort. We can serve more people while minimizing the negative impact 
on what we all value. 
Let’s do this together.

C asean 31
Guidelines for Smart 
City Development
From 2015 to 2025, urbanization is predicted to continue throughout all ASEAN Member 
States, resulting in an additional 70 million urban dwellers in the area. Urbanization has 
dominated mid-sized metropolitan centers with populations of 500,000 to 5 million people, 
as well as megacities like Bangkok and Jakarta. Rapid urbanization has created problems 
and challenges in ASEAN Member States, affecting areas such as people’ quality of life, the 
environment, and infrastructure.
In 2018, ASEAN nations came together to establish the ASEAN Smart Cities Network 
(ASCN), a collaborative platform where cities from the ten ASEAN Member States address 
such concerns and challenges and give new value to citizens by leveraging data and digital 
infrastructure. By focusing on our people, ASCN adopts an inclusive approach to smart city 
development that respects human rights and basic freedoms as stipulated in the ASEAN 
Charter and helps to improve cross-cultural understanding.
On a conceptual level, ASCN’s main concepts for smart city development cast a wider net, 
namely, facilitating smart city development collaboration, catalyzing bankable initiatives with 
the private sector, and garnering finance and assistance from ASEAN’s external partners. 
Practical recommendations have also been developed to help speed up the development 
process. The overall goal of development begins with the classification of the type 
of development. The “Five Things to Consider” assists the city in developing a complete 
strategy to avoid making the mistakes addressed in the Smart City Is Citizen-Centric 
section. Finally, the “Seven Domains of Smart City” breaks down the smart city program into 
solution-oriented tasks, making it easier for the assessment. 

32 C asean 
Two Types of Smart City Development 
First and foremost, smart city candidates should determine which type of smart city they 
aspire to become. Determining which type is a result of both the citizen-centric understanding 
of the city and an evaluation of its potential for development, whether that be socioeconomic, 
educational, or industrial. 
To be developed into a “Smart Livable City,” the existing city needs to incorporate and 
integrate technology and innovation, as needed by its residents, that vary by the city’s 
specific contexts, including infrastructure, social services, housing, recreational areas, and 
commercial resources, as well as the design of urban spaces contributing to the rich existing 
culture, tradition, and identity of the city as a whole. 
While a “Smart Livable City” makes use of technology and innovation as needed by its 
specific contexts, a “New Smart City” focuses on development based on land (e.g., greenfield 
or brownfield), labor, and ample opportunity for new development in line with certain national 
policies.
Five Steps to Consider 
There are five criteria for measuring the potential of a smart city program: 
1. Identifying geographical boundaries, smart city type, smart city vision and goals. This 
process requires the active participation of the citizens to ensure that the visions and goals 
fit well with the needs of the city and sit well with the core competency of the city in a long term; 
2. Formulating an infrastructural development and investment plan for both digital and 
basic infrastructure such as transportation, energy, and public services; 
3. Designing a data storage and management platform (also commonly known as City 
Data Platform or CDP) as well as cybersecurity for the city and its residents. Synergizing with 
the physical infrastructure, the design of the digital infrastructure fosters the use of big data 
analytics in the operation of IT services in the city; 
4. Building urban systems, activities, and projects per the proposed type of Smart City, 
encompassing both mandatory and supplementary services as appropriate; and 
5. Creating a management model and process of public participation incubation for a 
sustainable operation. 
Often, cities are encouraged to use tools from both the Design Thinking and Business 
Model Canvas (BMC) schools of thought that are widely used among creative 
entrepreneurs. These tools are useful as they facilitate not only productive communication 
among the stakeholders, but also provide a layout for the overall process of smart city 
development and promotion. 

C asean 33
Seven Domains of Smart City 
As a process, the smart city is characterized by seven domains, which serve both to guide 
operation and to benchmark success. Also based on extensive research, these seven 
domains of smart city are seen to encompass all value, virtue, and viability of a smart city 
program: 
Smart Environment: As the must-have and most important domain of a smart city, 
the guiding question is how to improve the ecological quality of a sustainable urban 
environment? The goal is to minimize the negative impact of urban living on the environment 
and climate change through the systematic use of technology as applied to water resource 
management, climate monitoring, waste management, and disaster watch, including public 
participation in the conservation of natural resources. 
Smart Economy: How can technology be used to help improve the economy and 
manage available resources more efficiently? The goal is to make full use of digital technology 
to effectively increase value-add in the economic system as well as resource management, 
such as a smart agro-city and a smart tourism city. 
Smart Mobility: How can technology be used to solve traffic problems in the city so 
people can travel conveniently, efficiently, sustainably, and safely? This domain places an 
emphasis on the development of traffic and transportation systems in driving the country 
forward. By enhancing the connectedness of a variety of traffic and transportation systems, 
urban residents benefit from enhanced convenience and safety, and by becoming friendlier 
to the environment. 
Smart Energy: How can conserving the use of non-renewable energy be balanced with 
producing alternative sources of clean energy? This domain spearheads effective energy 
management and the building of a fine balance between the production and usage of energy 
to enhance energy security and decrease reliance on the traditional channels of energy 
distribution. 
Smart People: How can the skills of people in the city be developed to boost creativity 
and create more jobs? The goal is to improve the knowledge base, skill sets, and 
environment that are conducive to the life-long learning of urban residents to decrease 
social and economic inequality and provide new opportunities for creativity, innovation, and 
public participation. 
Smart Living: How can innovation be used and the quality of life of people in the city be 
improved to make them safe and happy? Hence, the goal is to maximize health, safety, and 
the quality of life of urban residents through universal design. 
Smart Governance: How can a digital system be designed where people can benefit from 
big data, improving public service in the city? The goal is to develop the system of public 
services to benefit the residents whose access to data and trust in the accountability of such 
a system are key to their livelihood and wellbeing. The system shall be consistently improved 
through applied service innovation.

34 C asean 
Books: 
British Embassy Bangkok and Digital Economy Promotion Agency. 2020. Smart City Thailand Handbook. https://eu.eventscloud.
com/ehome/index.php?eventid=200214113& 
Caminos, Horacio, and Reinhard Goethert. 1978. Urbanization Primer. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press. 
Cusumano, Michael A., Annabelle Gawer, and David B. Yoffie. 2019. The Business of Platforms : Strategy in the Age of Digital 
Competition, Innovation, and Power. First edition. New York, NY: HarperCollins Publishers. 
Glaeser, Edward L. 2011. Triumph of the City : How Our Greatest Invention Makes Us Richer, Smarter, Greener, Healthier, and 
Happier. New York: Penguin Press. 
Green, Ben. 2019. The Smart Enough City. Cambridge: MIT Press. 
Gassmann, Oliver, Jonas Böhm, and Maximilian Palmié 2019. Smart Cities : Introducing Digital Innovation to Cities. Bingley, 
England: Emerald Publishing. 
Florida, Richard. 2017. The New Urban Crisis. London: Oneworld Publications.
Furlonger, David, and Christophe Uzureau. 2019. The Real Business of Blockchain : How Leaders Can Create Value in a New 
Digital Age. Boston: [Harvard Business School Publishing Corporation]. 
Halegoua, Germaine R. 2020. Smart Cities. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. 
Kelley, Tom, and Jonathan Littman. 2007. The Art of Innovation. The Art of Innovation : Lessons in Creativity from IDEO, America’s 
Leading Design Firm. 1st ed. Westminster: Crown/Archetype.
Kelley, Tom, and Jonathan Littman. 2005. The Ten Faces of Innovation : IDEO’s Strategies for Beating the Devil’s Advocate & Driv -
ing Creativity Throughout Your Organization. New York: Currency/Doubleday.
Krishnan, Saravanan, Valentina E Balas, Julie Golden, Y. Harold Robinson, and Raghvendra Kumar Kumar. 2021. Blockchain for 
Smart Cities. San Diego: Elsevier.
Sklair, Leslie. 2017. The Icon Project : Architecture, Cities, and Capitalist Globalization. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. 
Montgomery, Charles. 2013. Happy City : Transforming Our Lives through Urban Design. First edition. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. 
Reichental, Jonathan. 2020. Smart Cities for Dummies. Newark: John Wiley & Sons, Incorporated. 
Sautoy, Marcus Du. 2019. The Creativity Code : Art and Innovation in the Age of AI. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The Belknap 
Press of Harvard University Press.
Speck, Jeff. 2012. Walkable City : How Downtown Can Save America, One Step at a Time. 1st ed. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. 
Townsend, Anthony M. 2013. Smart Cities : Big Data, Civic Hackers, and the Quest for a New Utopia. First edition. New York, NY: 
W.W. Norton & Company, Inc. 
Vives, Antoni. 2018. Smart City Barcelona : the Catalan Quest to Improve Future Urban Living. Brighton; Portland: Sussex Academic Press. 
Resources on Smart Cities 

C asean 35
Online Resources:
ASEAN Smart Cities Network: https://asean.org/our-communities/asean-smart-cities-network/ 
Aspern Seestadt: https://www.aspern-seestadt.at/en 
Bee Smart City: https://www.beesmart.city/ 
Behavioral Insights: https://www.bi.team/
Bentley Digital Twins: https://www.bentley.com/en/products/product-line/digital-twins
Bloomberg CityLab: https://www.bloomberg.com/citylab 
City Possible: https://citypossible.com/ 
District 2020: https://www.district2020.ae/
Top 50 Smart City Governments: https://www.smartcitygovt.com/top50-smartcitygovernments 
International WELL Building Institute: https://www.wellcertified.com/ 
MIT Technology Review: https://www.technologyreview.com/topic/smart-cities/ 
MIT Senseable City Lab: https://senseable.mit.edu/ 
Open Learn Smart Cities: https://www.open.edu/openlearn/mod/oucontent/view.php?id=67877 
Smart Cities on Open Learn: https://www.open.edu/openlearn/mod/oucontent/view.php?id=67877 
Smart Cities World: https://www.smartcitiesworld.net/home 
Smart Cities Dive: https://www.smartcitiesdive.com/ 
Smart Cities Council: https://www.smartcitiescouncil.com/ 
Startup Estonia: https://startupestonia.ee/en 

36 C asean 

C asean 37
Acknowledgements
 
This book features the insights from the 2021 YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop, which brought together 50 participants who 
are between the ages of 20-35 and are registered YSEALI network members from all ASEAN member nations as well as Timor-Leste. 
Funded by the U.S. Department of State, organized by the U.S. Embassy Bangkok, in partnership with the Foundation 
for the Institute of Social Enterprise Development (FINSEDT) and C asean, the Workshop aimed to enhance participants’ 
knowledge of smart cities as well as to explore how to involve civil society and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in smart city 
development in the region. The ultimate goal is to foster a strong network among participants and to encourage greater involvement 
from young leaders, civil society, and SMEs in smart city development, while increasing capacity of future leaders to develop 
sustainable solutions to urbanization challenges in the region, using digital and other tools.

38 C asean 
Executive Editors:
Tongjai Thanachanan
Sansana Malaiarisoon 
Content Editors:
Non A 
Reilly Paul Rabitaille
Content Support:
ASEAN Smart Cities Network
Calvin Chu, Eden Strategy Institute
Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa) and Smart City Thailand Office
Fraser Property Holdings (Thailand) Company Limited
One Bangkok Company Limited
TCC Assets (Thailand) Company Limited
TedX Siriraj Faculty of Medicine, Bangkok
U.S. Embassy Bangkok
2021 YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop
Speakers Delivering Presentations from Which Ideas in 
this Primer are Extracted:
Agapol Na Songkhla, Ami Valdemoro, Hugh Lim, and Khwanjira Ponsree. 
Future Leaders in ASEAN Smart City.
Audrey Maximillian Herli. Smart City Lab Workshop: 
Strategic Planning & Sustainable Development for Smart Cities–Health.
Chadchart Sittipunt. Infrastructure of ASEAN’s Future Smart Cities.
Hanh Le. Smart City Lab Workshop: Strategic Planning & Sustainable Development 
for Smart Cities – Built Infrastructure.
Helen Santiago Fink. Urban System Integration and Nature-based Solutions 
for Sustainability.
Irza Suprapto and Valerie Tan. Smart City Lab Workshop: Strategic Planning and 
Sustainable Development for Smart Cities – Industry.
Lisa Teo. Smart City Lab Workshop: Strategic Planning & Sustainable Development 
for Smart Cities–Quality Environment.
Maimunah Jaffar. Strategic Planning and Sustainable for Smart Cities.
Contributors

C asean 39
Non Arkaraprasertkul. Trends Affecting the Development of a Smart City.
Sanon Wangsrangboon. Smart City Lab Workshop: Strategic Planning & Sustainable 
Development for Smart Cities–Civil & Social.
Suchatvee Suwansawat. City for All – Social Well-Being in Smart Cities.
Tham Borg Tsien. ASEAN Smart Cities Network.
Triyuth Promsiri. Design Thinking.
Yudhistira Nugraha. Smart City Lab Workshop: Strategic Planning & Sustainable 
Development for Smart Cities–Safety.
2021 YSEALI Smart Cities Regional Workshop
Alumni: 
Angelica Añabeza 
Arden Linh Nguyen 
Brenda Nathania Passandaran 
Danesya Ananda Rahmat 
Hoh Jia Da 
Ilman Hanifa Yunardi 
Jean Sonia P . Langi 
Krister Roquel 
Mohammad Wahyu 
Namtip Pornchokchai 
Sackdavong Mangkhaseum 
SiddArtha Valle 
Thanakorn Thanasujaree 
Vo Hong Phung 
Coordinator: 
Pasita Marukee
Artwork:
Bhornmon Tunmhasmut

40 C asean 
About C asean 
C asean is a not-for-profit organization established in 2013. Our vision is “Collaboration for the better of ASEAN’s 
connectivity.” C asean strives to be a hub for ASEAN entrepreneurs and ASEAN future generations focusing on business, 
arts and culture. In the business arena, we aim to promote sustainable development practices across all segments of 
the economy, ranging from large corporations to entrepreneurs and youth. Through our various activities, we also play a 
part in leadership & talent development for the region while fostering integration of business leaders into wider regional 
ASEAN network. Equally important, C asean serves as a platform for ASEAN art and cultural dialogues, as we believe 
that art is an essential tool to blend our heritages and create a special bond of harmonious friendship as well as a 
distinctive ASEAN identity. 

C asean 41

42 C asean
